=================
HDF Newsletter #7
=================

 March 2, 1993


CONTENTS

 1. HDF3.2 Release 4

 2. XDataSlice now takes new number types

 3. HDF3.3 Alpha release 4

 4. HDF 3.2 is slow on the Mac


HDF3.2 Release 4
----------------

HDF 3.2 release 4 merges the source code of 3.2 release 3 and
the patch files which contain the bug fixes since release 3 has
been officailly released. See CODECHANGES in HDF/HDF3.2r4/unpacked/
for details.

In HDF3.2 release 1, 2 and 3 there is a bug in writing data label,

.. code-block:: c

   unit and format. When writing an SDS, if only DFSDsetdatastrs()
   was called and no DFSDsetdimstrs() was called the bug will appear
   in the hdf file. If none of DFSDsetdimstrs() and
   DFSDsetdatastrs() was called, or both of them were called, or
   only DFSDsetdimstrs() was called, there will be no such bug in
   the hdf file. The bug might cause segmentation fault on SGI and
   other platforms when DFSDgetdims or DFSDgetdata is called to read
   in that SDS. The bug was fixed and the fix was included in the patch
   file patch01 in HDF/HDF3.2r3/patches/. Also, a patched dfsd.c was in
   HDF/HDF3.2r3/patches/patchedsrc/src/. Besides, there were other
   bug fixes in dfan.c and utility programs in patch01 and patch02.


Since some users downloaded HDF programs without downloading the patches
at the same time, we feel need to update HDF on ftp with the patch files

.. code-block:: c

   merged into the code to avoid users' writing wrong hdf files. If you
   haven't patched your HDF3.2r3 using the patch files please download
   3.2r4 and reinstall your HDF library.


The executable code on NCSA platforms: CRAY-2, CRAY-YMP, CONVEX and REL
was updated on Feb. 24 and 25. If you have any question please contact
sxu@ncsa.uiuc.edu.

If you have used HDF3.2 release 1, 2 or 3 to write SDSs with the bugs
mentioned above, you need to rewrite the hdf file. We are trying to make
a utility which will search for the bug through an hdf file and rewrite
the SDS data strings. We will send another notice when the utility is
ready.

We are very sorry for having not caught the bug and fixed it earlier.



XDataSlice now takes new number types

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Gilles Bourhis, visitor from France, has upgraded NCSA XDataSlice
to accept all number types supported by HDF3.2. The new release,
XDataSlice version 2.2 is on NCSA ftp server (ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu), in
subdirectory:

 UNIX/XDataSlice/XDS2.2


HDF3.3 Alpha release 4

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



HDF 3.3 alpha release 4 has been installed on the NCSA ftp server. This
alpha release contains most of the new features that will be available in
the full release of HDF 3.3. (As soon as all features are available, we
will distribute a beta release.)

HDF version 3.3 release 4 supplies the following features that are not
available in HDF 3.2:

 o Support for reading and writing JPEG compressed 24-bit and
 8-bit raster images

 o A utility for ingesting JPEG images into an HDF file.

 o Support for reading and writing Little-Endian (PC Native)
 mode files on all platforms in Vdatas and SDSs.

 o Improved I/O performance on Cray and VMS platforms.

 o Support for the netCDF interface and data model. It is

.. code-block:: c

    now possible, via the netCDF interface to do the
    following:
    * read XDR-based (Unidata format) netCDF file
    * read and write HDF-based netCDFs to HDF files
    * read HDF SDSs.


 o An SDS interface with the following features:

 * support for simultaneous access to more than
 one file (uses file handles)
 * support for simultaneous access to more than
 one HDF object (uses object handles)
 * support for reading and writing hyperslabs at
 random places in an SDS.
 * support for an unlimited dimension in an SDS.
 * faster access to files with many data sets
 * faster access on Crays
 * transparent access to netCDFs that conform to
 the SDS data model.

Other features that are planned for HDF 3.3:

 o The ability to store SDS dimension scales of a different
 data type than that of the corresponding data.
 o The ability to store a palette with an SDS.
 o The ability to subsample data in an SDS.


HDF3.3 Alpha releases 1, 2 and 4 are on NCSA ftp server in subdirectory:

 HDF/HDF3.3-ALPHA/

The README file in that directory lists the features for each release
and the new functions in each interfaces.

This is an "alpha" release and is bound to have bugs. You can help us a
great deal by reporting any problems you have with the library, as well as
any other suggestions or comments.


HDF 3.2 is slow on the Mac

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We have had reports that HDF 3.2 is running much slower on the Mac than did
earlier versions of HDF. We are trying to track down the reasons for this
but have not yet been able to find them. If you have any ideas, please
share them with us.


