=================
HDF Newsletter #9
=================

 June 15, 1993

Contents:

 Status of HDF documentation

 . Current HDF Documentation

 . Next generation of HDF documentation

 Get HDF documentation from NCSA ftp server

 Order hard-copies of HDF documentation

 Documentation for HDF 3.3 Beta

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1. Status of HDF documentation.

 . Current HDF Documentation

 "HDF Calling Interfaces and Utilities" was designed for users
 who use HDF to store or manipulate their data. It describes
 the type of data each interface deals with and all the
 routines contained in each interface. HDF command-line
 utilities are also described in this manual. It has been
 updated to HDF3.2.

 "HDF Specifications" was designed for those who need detailed

.. code-block:: fortran

    information about HDF, such as HDF application program interface
    developers. It describes the basic structure, components, and
    software layers of HDF; specifies supported HDF tags and discusses
    the portability of HDF. It has been updated to HDF3.2.
    The current version is a draft and is now undergoing editing. We
    expect a final version to be ready by mid-July.

    We are working on the documentation for HDF3.2 Vset interface.
    Currently, users may use "HDF Vset 2.0", "vset2.1.extra.doc" and
    the Vset section of HDF3.2 MigrationNotes as temporary reference
    for HDF Vset.


 "HDF Vset 2.0" was designed for users who use HDF Vset to store
 and manipulate their data. It describes the organization of data
 within vdatas, vgroups and vsets, routines that manipulate vdatas
 and vgroups, and vset utilities that manipulate vsets.

 "Vset2.1.extra.doc" describes routines added in Vset2.1 and not covered
 by "HDF Vset 2.0".

 The "MigrationNotes" of HDF3.2 addesses differences between HDF3.2 and
 HDF3.1, and explains how to migrate existing application programs from
 HDF3.1 to HDF3.2.

 . Next generation of HDF documentation

 The next generation of HDF documentation is planned to have the following
 volumes:

 Getting Started -- Overview of HDF with simple examples. Its draft is
 completed and is titled as "Getting Started With NCSA HDF".

 User's Guide -- Full coverage of all HDF routines and command-line utilities

 Reference Manual -- An alphabetical listing of all HDF routines and
 command-line utilities

 HDF Specifications -- Same as the current HDF Specifications

2. Getting HDF documentation from NCSA ftp server.

 On the NCSA anonymous ftp server users can find the drafts for
 "HDF Specifications", "HDF Calling Interfaces and Utilities",
 and "Getting Started with NCSA HDF", as well as the documentation
 for HDF Vset. They are in different subdirectories within the
 directory Documentation/ (on ftp). There is a README file in each
 subdirectory, which explains briefly what is contained in that
 subdirectory and related information.

 The following is a list showing where (which subdirectory) each
 documentation resides in on NCSA ftp:


 Documentation subdirectory
 ------------------- --------------------

 HDF Specifications Documentation/HDF.Specs/
 (Draft)

 HDF Calling Interfaces Documentation/HDF3.2/
 and Utilities (Draft)

 HDF Vset 2.0 Documentation/HDF.Vset2.1/

 vset2.1.extra.doc Documentation/HDF.Vset2.1/

 Getting Started with Documentation/HDF_getting_started/
 NCSA HDF (Draft)

 MigrationNotes HDF/HDF3.2r4/unpacked/

 "HDF Specifications", "HDF Calling Interfaces" and "HDF Vset 2.0" were
 written using MicroSoft Word. In each subdirectory the *.sit.hqx file
 is the MS Word version of the documentation and is stuffed using
 Stuffit.1.5. The *.asc.tar file is the text version of the MS Word file.
 It is missing all figures and formatting , so it is not very readable.

 "Getting Started" was created using FrameMaker. This document is
 available only in postscript form.

 MigrationNotes and vset2.1.extra.doc are text files.

3. Order hard-copies of HDF documentation.

 NCSA accepts orders for hard copies of HDF Specs, HDF Calling Interfaces,
 HDF Vset 2.0 and Getting Started. Interested users should contact the
 office of NCSA Documentation Orders at:

 (217)244-4130
 docorder@ncsa.uiuc.edu (Internet)
 docorder@ncsagate (BITNET)
 or
 Attention: Documentation Orders
 NCSA
 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
 605 Springfield Ave.
 Champaign, IL 61820


 Before the new documentation is officially published, NCSA supplies drafts
 of the documentation only. Don't be surprised if you see the big sign "DRAFT"
 on the top page when you receive the new documentation!

 MigrationNotes is contained in HDF3.2 releases. Users having difficulties
 in geting these two files should contact softdev@ncsa.uiuc.edu.


4. Documentation for HDF 3.3 Beta

 The README file in HDF/HDF3.3-Beta/ and README files in its subdirectories
 explain the differences between HDF3.2r4 and HDF3.3.Beta. Those README files
 and HDF3.2 documentation supply most necessary information to HDF3.3 users.







