==================
HDF Newsletter #10
==================

 July 29, 1993

Contents

	HDF3.3 Beta release 2
	HDF FAQ
	New contributions from HDF users
	Update on NCSA tools: Mosaic and Collage

HDF3.3 Beta release 2

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


HDF 3.3 Beta Release 2 has been tested on the following machines:

Platform 'base library' 'HDF / netCDF part'
Sun4 X X
IBM/RS6000 X X
SGI X X
Convex X X
Cray-Y X X
Cray-2 X X
NeXT X X
HP X X
DecStation X X

DEC Alpha X
Fujitsu VP X
IBM PC - MSDOS X
IBM PC - Windows X
Mac X
VAX/VMS X


What's new in HDF 3.3 Beta 2

 o netCDF 2.3.2 support
 o added routine SDfindattr() to find an attribute given its
 name

.. code-block:: c

    o sometimes SDreaddata() would return incorrect fill values
    when no data had been written
    o programs using Vset routines should no longer need to
    explicitly include vg.h
    o fixed problem in multi-file interface when sharing
    dimensions between datasets
    o the base library now works on the Mac with MPW3.2 C and
    Language System Fortran
    o a number of memory leaks (including two huge ones) were fixed
    o added routine SDsetexternalfile() (documented below) to
    store a dataset's data in a separate file
    o a number of bugs in the handling of old SDS files by the new
    interface were fixed
    o the base library works on PC except the slab routines
    o the base library passed test on VMS except little endian
    float64


HDF FAQ

 We have put together 27 frequently asked questions about HDF and
 its applications. It is in the directory HDF/ on the NCSA ftp server.
 It is a living file and will be changed along with the development
 of HDF. A suggested bug report form is included in the FAQ. Hope users
 use the form to report to us the bugs. Comments and suggestions are welcome.

New contributions from HDF users

 Several users donated their software to our HDF user community. These
 contributions are kept in the subdirectory HDF/contrib/ on the NCSA ftp
 server. See the README file in the same directory for more detail about
 the software and the contributor. A brief list of the contributions
 follows.

 o Peter Schweitzer contributed his port of HDF3.2r4 to Watcom C/386.
 The contribution includes a README, a Makefile, a compiled optimized
 HDF library (C only), and the UNIX diff files of the source code.

 o NCSA fix32atr

.. code-block:: fortran

    A C program fix32luf.c is written to fix the label/unit/format problem
    in hdf files written by releases 1 -- 3 of HDF3.2. See
    HDF/newsletter/Newsletter8 for more detail.


 o Andrea Leone of Scientific Visualization Group Centre for Advanced
 Studies, R&D in Sardinia, Italy made some modification of HDF3.2r4

.. code-block:: c

    library to avoid the limitation on the number of Velements in a single
    Vgroup.


 o Nathan contributed his modifications to hfile.h and hfile.c in order to
 get HDF 3.2r4 to compile with Think C++ 6.0. Hdf.note lists the changes
 in those files.

 o Michael E. Mauel, Department of Applied Physics, Columbia
 University contributed his changes to HDF3.2r3 to compile
 it with THINK C v6.0. An HDF3.2r3.THINK_C.README and some
 examples are also included in the subdirectory HDF3.2r3.THINK_C/.

 o Neil Buesing of EROS Data Center at Sioux Falls, South Dakota, contributed
 InspectHDF.c. InspectHDF.c is developed to display information on HDF files.

 o Utility sds2ris.c is also contributed by Neil Buesing. It reads SDS's from
 input file and writes the data out as RIS's in the output file.

 o Joshua Goldstein from Research Systems contributed his port of HDF3.2r1 to
 the Alpha running VMS.


Update on NCSA tools: Mosaic and Collage

 o Collage 1.2 Beta is released on the ftp. In addition to the bug fixes,
 several changes and new features were added:

 - changes in generating a raster picture from a SDS
 - changes in the Rasters Windows
 - changes in changes in the Histogram tool
 - changes in the Plot or Profile tool
 - changes in the Contour Operation
 - changes in the Animation tool
 - changes in options when loading an animation
 - new slider to control the speed of animation
 - loading a file from command line
 - GIF, XWD support
 - new 3D features
 - new comunication features
 - chat box -- multiuser talk

 For more details please wait for a formal announcement from the Collage
 developers!

 o NCSA Mosaic 1.2

 NCSA Mosaic is an Internet-based global hypermedia browser, available
 on the NCSA anonymous ftp server. It contains an HDF browser.



