==================
HDF Newsletter #11
==================

 September 23, 1993

Contents

 HDF3.3 1 Release 1
 Update on HDF/contrib/
 Vset tools
 inspectHDF
 fits2hdf
 New version of NCSA XCollage


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HDF 3.3 release 1 now available

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


NCSA is pleased to announce the release of HDF 3.3r1. HDF 3.3r1 is
available on on the NCSA ftp server (ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu; IP address
141.142.20.50) in the directory HDF/HDF3.3r1. README files in this
directory and subdirectories contain full details on the new features
of HDF 3.3, as well as directions on how to download, install and use
it.

Briefly, HDF 3.3 contains the following new features:

 - A new SDS interface that has the following features:

 * 'multi-file access': support for access to more than one
 file at a time, and more than one SDS at a time.
 * 'name = value' style meta-data: support for a more general
 framework for meta-data within the SDS data model, allowing
 * support for an "unlimited dimension" within the SDS data
 model
 * The ability to read and write random hyperslabs
 * the ability to subsample arrays
 * the ability to access netCDF files via the SDS interface

 - JPEG compression: the 8-bit and 24-bit interfaces now read and
 write JPEG compressed 24-bit and 8-bit raster images

 - Support for the netCDF data model, with the following features:

 * the ability to use the entire netCDF 2.3.2 interface to
 write data to HDF files
 * the ability to read SDS data via the netCDF interface
 * the ability to read netCDF data from files in the netCDF
 format developed at Unidata

 - Improved conversion routines on the Cray, providing faster access
 for SDS and Vdata I/O.

 - The ability to read and write little-endian (PC native) mode
 files on all platforms, expanding the capabilities of the
 SDS and Vdata interfaces.

 - Vset interface changes, including

 * the ability to store more than one field of order greater
 than one in a vdata
 * several new routines for finding information about Vdata field
 attributes
 * the use of integers rather than pointers for Vgroup and Vdata
 identifiers, to make them more compatible with the other HDF
 interfaces.

The HDF 3.3 library is composed of two main parts. The first part, the
"base library" includes all interfaces that were supported prior to HDF
3.3, including any enhancements to those interfaces added in HDF 3.3.
The second part, the HDF/netCDF part, contains the new multi-file SDS
interface and the netCDF interface.

HDF 3.3 Release 1 has been tested successfully on the following
machines:.

Platform 'base library' HDF/netCDF
Sun4 X X
IBM/RS6000 X X
SGI X X
Convex X X
Cray Y-MP X X
NeXT X X
HP X X
DecStation X X
Mac X *

DEC Alpha X
Fujitsu VP X
IBM PC - MSDOS **
IBM PC - Windows **
VAX/VMS X

 * The netCDF interface works but you currently are unable to read old
 netCDF(XDR) files. In addtion, the fortran interface and ncdump
 utility has yet to be finished.

 ** There is no FORTRAN support for either PC version of HDF 3.3.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update on HDF/contrib/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Vsettools -- vs2ris and vs2ps:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fred Walsteijn, Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Research at
Utrecht University of The Netherlands, upgraded the Vset
conversion tools vs2ris and vs2ps to HDF3.2r4. The previous
version (v2.1) compiled with HDF3.2r2 and was contributed by Fred
last year December.

The programs, accompanied by README files and example data,
are in directory HDF3.2r4.Vsettools/.

inspectHDF:
----------
Last August Neil Buesing updated inspectHDF to HDF3.3b2 and
improved its functionality. The updated version is now available
in the subdirectory inspectHDF/.

fits2hdf:
--------
Niall Ives Gaffney contributed a fits2hdf utility which
converts FITS files into HDF files. The programs are in
directory fits2hdf/. There are also README and a Makefile
in the same directory.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Update on XCollage:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


NCSA XCollage version 1.2 has now been released and is available on
ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu. Here is a list of the changes and enhancements in the
new version.

Changes when generating a raster picture from a SDS :

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 - prompt user to modify the minimum and maximum that will be used to

.. code-block:: fortran

    compute a raster value from a float or integer value.
    - default the output raster range to 30-254. Settable through X resources:
    Collage.basePixel & Colllage.lastPixel
    - optional bilinear interpolation.


Changes in the Rasters Windows :

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 - By default, the first 30 entries of the colormap are the same as those
 of the system colormap so that it doesn't "flash" when you enter
 this window.
 - In the palette menu, the current palette is shown with an indented
 diamond.

Changes in the Histogram tool :

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 - when data come from a SDS, computation is made with the SDS data instead of

.. code-block:: fortran

    the raster data, and so the labels show floating or integer values.
    - User can change the number (hence, the size) of intervals thru the Options
    menu.


Changes in the Plot or Profile tool :

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 - here too, when data come from a SDS, use the SDS data instead of the
 raster data and displays the data in the scale labels.

Creates contours for images which were generated from SDS's.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Changes in the Animation tool :

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 - Three options when loading an animation :
 you can use the X server memory (Pixmaps), client memory or
 store the picture on disk.
 - New slider to control the speed of animation
 - when loading SDS, prompt the user for magnification (does not interpolate)

Load a file from command line :

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 - the -load <file> option enables the user to load a file without going
 through the browser.

GIF, XWD support :
-----------------

 - Collage support reading images from GIF or XWD formatted files.

New 3D features :
----------------

 - pops up a new panel when you load three dimensionnal data enabling
 the user to choose an axis and a plane perpendicular to this axis,
 and display the plane either as a spreadsheet or a raster image.

New communication features :

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 - When generating a raster image from an SDS, the image is now sent to
 everybody on the session and the receiving collage instances are
 now able to link this raster image with the original SDS, in order
 to use it in the profile & histogram tool.
 - When sending the palette that goes with a raster image, we keep the
 original name of the palette, instead of renaming it to the name
 of the raster image. The receiving side is now able to link
 the palette with the raster image using a new tag in the DTM header.

