==================
HDF Newsletter #12
==================


 SEASON'S GREETINGS FROM HDF!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 NEWSLETTER #12

 December 23, 1993

Contents

 1. HDF3.3 Release 2
 2. HDF3.3r2 bug fixes and support for Solaris2.0
 3. HDF3.3 Reference Manual available
 4. ANSI C in HDF 4.0
 5. Proposed N-bit Dataset Routines
 6. HDF Help Desk and HDF Information Server
 7. Update on Collage, Mosaic, etc
 8. New Contributions

HDF 3.3 release 2 now available

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


NCSA is pleased to announce the release of HDF 3.3r2. HDF 3.3r2 is
available on the NCSA ftp server (ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu; IP address
141.142.20.50) in the directory HDF/HDF3.3r2/. File ABOUT_3.3r2
and README files in that directory and subdirectories contain full
details on the new features of HDF 3.3, as well as directions on how
to download, install and use it.

HDF3.3r2 bug fixes and support for Solaris 2.0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We would like to give our special thanks to Andy Pursch and Christopher
Cordell from JPL for helping us to port HDF3.3r2 to Solaris.

Since HDF3.3r2 was released at the end of November, 1993, several bugs
have been fixed as well as a port to Solaris. We decide to put bug
fixes and the port in two patch files hdf.patch01 and mfhdf.patch01
in HDF/HDF3.3r2/patches/. For the convenience of users who don't
have easy access to patch facilities, we put all patched source
code in HDF/HDF3.3r2/patches/patchedsrc/.

Please read the README files in those directories for details.

HDF 3.3 Reference Manual available

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A complete draft of the "HDF 3.3. Reference Manual, Draft Version 3.3" has
just been completed.

This manual is designed to serve as a listing of the function calls
and command-line utilities supported by HDF version 3.3. It contains
descriptions, definitions, and in some cases examples that demonstrate
how to use each function and utility in the HDF library.

The main chapters in the manual are:

 Ch 1: Intro to HDF functions calls and utilities. A brief review
 of each HDF interface, its data model and routines

 Ch 2: The HDF function calls. An alphabetical listing of function
 calls available in the HDF 3.3 library.

 Ch 3: The HDF Utilities. An alphabetical listing of command-line
 utilities available in the HDF 3.3 library.

The NCSA ftp directory Documentation/HDF3.3/Ref_Manual contains postscript
files that constitute the manual. See the README in the directory for
further information.

If you need hardcopy, contact the office of NCSA Documentation Orders at:

 (217)244-4130
 docorder@ncsa.uiuc.edu (Internet)
 docorder@ncsagate (BITNET)

or

 Attention: Documentation Orders
 NCSA
 University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
 605 Springfield Ave.
 Champaign, IL 61820


ANSI C in HDF 4.0
=================
There has been some discussion among the members of the HDF
development team about the issue of our next major release (v4.0)
being primarily targeted towards the use of ANSI C conforming
compilers.

We would like to have v4.0 and all further releases of the HDF library
and utilities be written to only compile with ANSI C compilers. We
believe this will increase the clarity and maintainability of our
code.

In the interests of maintaining backwards compatibility with K&R C
compilers, we would distribute in the release Peter Deutsch's ansi2knr
tool which can convert ANSI C code into K&R compliant code. This would
allow older K&R C compilers continued access to new versions of the
library.

Please respond to Quincey Koziol at koziol@ncsa.uiuc.edu for future
correspondence on this issue.

N-Bit Dataset Routines

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Currently, users of Scientific data sets in HDF are asking for ways to
store datasets which are composed of number types which don't fall
into any of our current pre-defined number types. This type of data

.. code-block:: fortran

   could be 12-bit integers, 15-bit floating point numbers, and possibly
   structures (Vdatas) containing fields of various bit sizes.


Since HDF is moving towards sole support of multi-file I/O, functions
which allowed these types of datasets would only be implemented in the
multi- file SDS and the VSet routines. The following discussion
relates only to the SDS extensions, VSet extensions for bitfields will
be handled at a later date.

o Writing N-Bit datasets:

 - SDsetbitfield(int32 sdsid, intn bitoffset, intn bitlength)

This routine would specify that a bitfield was to be extracted from
each item of data in a dataset in memory as it was written to the
file. The data in memory exists in an "unpacked" form, and the
extracted bitfields would be extracted and packed together as the data
was written to the HDF file.

The bitfield would start at the location specified by the bitoffset
field, and the number of bits to extract would be specified in the
bitlength field. This would allow users to extract bits from anywhere

.. code-block:: fortran

   in an integer as they were written to the file. The numbertype
   specified in the SDselect, or SDcreate call (where the sdsid parameter
   was generated), would be the "base" numbertype used to advance through
   the unpacked dataset in memory as the bitfields were extracted and
   written to the file.


An example of the function calls needed to write a 6-bit field

.. code-block:: fortran

   occupying bits 8-13 in a 16-bit integer is shown below, with the
   layout of the bits in memory.


 int32 fid, sdsid, dims[2]={10,10};
 int32 start[2]={0,0};
 int32 edge[2]={10,10};
 int16 mydata[10][10];

 fid=SDstart("myfile.hdf",DFACC_CREATE);
 sdsid=SDcreate(fid,"mydata",DFNT_INT16,2,dims);
 SDsetbitfield(sdsid,8,6);
 SDwritedata(sdsid,start,NULL,edge,mydata);

The "mydata" dataset looks like this in memory:

 1
 5 4 3 2 1 0 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 | | <-data-> | |

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 | | <-data-> | |

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 .
 .
 .

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 | | <-data-> | |

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 | | <-data-> | |

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 - SDsetbitsignextend(int32 sdsid,bool signextend)

This routine would indicate that the highest bit in the bitfield would
be used to specify the value of all bits higher in the data. In the
example above, if SDsetbitsignextend() was called with the signextend

.. code-block:: c

   parameter set to TRUE, bit 13 would be determine the bit values of
   bits 14 & 15, setting them to 1 if bit 13 was one and 0 if bit 13 was
   zero. This routine would take a higher priority than the
   SDsetbitbackground() routine or SDsetbitfill() routines below.


 - SDsetbitbackground(int32 sdsid,VOIDP background)

This routine would specify the value that was filled into the "empty"

.. code-block:: c

   bits when a dataset was later read. The background parameter would be
   a pointer to a value of the same number type as the dataset being
   written. This value would be a template onto which the bits read from
   the dataset would be overlaid. The bits read from the dataset would
   replace the appropriate bits (i.e. 8-13 in the example above) from the
   background value when the dataset was read by a user.


 - SDsetbitfill(int32 sdsid,bool bitfill)

This routine is proposed as an alternate to the SDsetbitbackground()
routine above, it would just specify whether the bits "around" the
bit-field would be set to 1 or 0 when the bit-field was read from the
file and presented to the user. In the example above, calling this
routine would ensure that bits 0-7 and 14-15 would be set to a
pre-defined value.

Either SDsetbitfill() or SDsetbitbackground() would be implemented,
not both.

o Reading N-Bit datasets:

Ideally, reading an N-bit dataset would be completely transparent to a
user. They would just set up an array of the number type of the

.. code-block:: c

   dataset, and call the reading functions specified in the multi-file SD
   interface. The internals of the HDF library would handle the
   reconstruction of the numbers for the user. This would mean that
   slicing would be supported, however it may be slow due to the unusual
   access methods required.


o Implementation:

The fact that a dataset was composed of bitfields would be indicated
by an attribute written to described the bitfields involved. Storing
the actual data in the file would need to be done through the bit I/O
routines in a manner similar to number type conversion. This is
necessary so that all machines would be able to read and write
bitfields without mixing them around.

Please respond to Quincey Koziol at koziol@ncsa.uiuc.edu for further
correspondence on this issue.

Announcement of HDF Help Desk and HDF Information Server

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF User Support Team would like to announce the creation of a
single email address for sending questions. The email address is
hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu. All future questions should be sent to this
address.

Currently, there is an EXPERIMENTAL HDF Information Server which is
accessible via Mosaic. Its URL is:

 http://yahoo.ncsa.uiuc.edu:8001/.

This server will perhaps become a permanent part of HDF.
We would like to hear your feedback about this system.

Update Collage, Mosaic, etc

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

New releases of XCollage and Mosaic as well as various other tools from
the Software Development Group at NCSA have been made in the past few
weeks. XCollage 1.2.1 now supports HDF3.3. Mosaic is now also available
for the IBM PC (Windows) and the Macintosh. All software is available
via NCSA's ftp server at ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu. For more information about
NCSA software, see NCSA's Information Server or documentation on the
ftp server.

New Contributions
=================

o fix version tag

 Fixver.c in subdirectory fixver/ is contributed by Doug Ilg, Hughes STX.

.. code-block:: fortran

    This program rewrites the version tag of the file specified on the command
    line. It fixes the problem of uninitialized garbage that is written at the
    end of the version tag string. This garbage can cause some programs
    (notably Mac Collage) to choke.


o read hdf files into Iris Explorer

 The NCSA PATHFINDER project contains a module ReadDF which reads HDF
 files into IRIS Explorer. The module is available on the NCSA
 anonymous ftp server.

 The module can now read from either HDF or netCDF files since it uses
 the NCSA MFHDF library. It runs on IRIX version 4 and Explorer 2.0.

 Please get the README files subdirectory hdftoxplr/ for more
 information.

 David P. Wojtowicz is the author of readDF.

o hdfinfo

 Hdfinfo.c was written by William Sherman of NCSA. It compiles with
 the HDF3.2 library. The package is in subdirectory hdfinfo/.

o HDF 24 bit image animator

 Andrea Leone, Centre for Advanced Studies, R&D Sardinia, has contributed
 two programs, hdf24seq and mhdf24seq, which have been tested on the SGIs
 and IBM RS/6000. Both programs visualize and animate 24 bit images from
 HDF files. mhdf24seq allows the user to visualize images from more than
 one hdf file at a time.

 The programs, as well as a README file are in the directory
 HDF3.3r1_hdf24seq.

 Andrea can be reached via email at: Andrea.Leone@crs4.it


