========================================================================
HDF Newsletter #25
========================================================================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the
message.

Newsletter #25 / July 28, 1997

CONTENTS

   * HDFNOW Release 0.3

     A. New Features and Changes
     B. Software Requirements
     C. Platforms Supported

Visit the HDF home page for up-to-date information on HDF:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/

HDFNOW Release 0.3
------------------------------------------------------------------------

HDFNOW Release 0.3 is now available on the HDF ftp server
(hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu) in the directory pub/HDFNOW. Please refer to the
release_notes file for information on installing HDFNOW. If you have
any questions or concerns, please email hdfparallel@ncsa.uiuc.edu.

HDFNOW is a library that supports HDF for a Network of Workstations.
The initial design supports the distributed Scientific Datasets for
HDF files.

The Distributed SD (DSD) interface is designed for those who are
familiar with the SD interface and experienced with message-passing
programs. The DSD interface is a layer on top of the SD interface,
which uses MPI for interprocess communications.

A. New Features and Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

   * Linux is now supported.

   * Changes in HDF NOW file structure

     - A library generated string, DHDF_SetId, is stored in each of
       the distributed HDF files (DHDF).

     - A library assigned integer, DHDF_FileId, is stored in each
       DHDF.

     - The file information of all the files in the same DHDF
       represented by a vdata is stored in the main HDF file (MHF).
       The file information in an associated HDF file contains the
       information of the MHF and itself.

     Please refer to man/HDFNOW.5 for more information.

B. Software Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

   * HDF distribution release 4.1r1

   * MPICH 1.1.0 distribution

C. Platforms Supported
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

   * HP-UX A.09.03

   * IRIX 5.3

   * Linux 2.0.30

   * SunOS 4.1.3

For more information on HDF support for Parallel Computing Systems,
take a look at the Parallel HDF home page at:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/Parallel_HDF/
