==================
HDF Newsletter #40
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #40
 February 17, 1999

CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HDF5 Beta Tools Release * Visit the HDF home page *

 * for up-to-date information *
 * on HDF: *
 * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

HDF5 Beta Tools Release

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Pre-compiled versions of the HDF5 (beta) tools are now available
for the following platforms:

 Digitial Unix 4.0
 HP-UX 10.20
 Irix 6.5
 Linux 2.2.1
 Solaris 2.5

The following binary utilities are included for each of the platforms
above:


 h5dump - Enables the user to examine the contents of an HDF5 file
 and dump those contents to an ASCII file.

 h5toh4 - Converts an HDF5 file into an HDF4 file.

 h5ls - Lists selected information about file objects in the
 specified format.

 h5repart - Repartitions a file or family of files.

 h5import - Creates an HDF5 file with a 1-D dataset of uint8.

 h5debug - Debugs an existing HDF5 file at a low level.


Information on h5dump, h5toh4, h5ls, and h5repart is included in
the Tools.html, which is provided with the binaries.

You can download this release from:

 ftp://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/pub/dist/HDF5/hdf5-tools-beta/

For more information regarding HDF5, take a look at the HDF5 home
page:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu

