==================
HDF Newsletter #43
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #43
 August 5, 1999

CONTENTS

. Release of HDF5 version 1.2.0 Beta

 - New Features and Changes *******************************
 - Platforms Supported * Visit the HDF home page *
 * for up-to-date information *

. Release of HDF5.0 Beta Image Conversion * on HDF: *
 Tools * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. HDF 4.1r3: AIX 4.3 Support

. HDF 4.1r3: Codewarrior 4 support


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


Release of HDF5 version 1.2.0 Beta

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


HDF5 version 1.2.0 Beta is now available. You can download this
from the NCSA ftp server at:

 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF5/hdf5-1.2.0beta/


New Features and Changes:

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


o Many changes to datatypes have been added, including support for
 new datatypes (variable-length, bitfield, opaque, enumeration),
 optimizations to compound datatypes, and new functions
 for optimized conversions for native datatypes.

o Several changes to data spaces have been made. New query functions
 for selections have been added and performance has been improved.

o HDF5 is now supported on the Cray T3E and Windows NT.

o Enhancements have been made to the parallel I/O support, which
 include improved performance and support for new platforms
 (Cray T3E, Linux, and the DEC Cluster).

o Numerous changes to the configuration have been added, in
 support of MPI-IO, more compilers, shared libraries, and new
 platforms.

o Object (serial and parallel) and dataset region (serial only)
 references have been implemented.

o Enhancements have been made to the hdfls and h5dump tools, and
 the h5toh4 converter has been added.

o The control and redirection of debugging and tracing messages
 have been improved.

o The documentation has been improved and more examples have been
 added.

Please refer to the RELEASE file at the top of the HDF5 source
code tree for further details on changes in this release.


Platforms Supported:
-------------------
 AIX 4.3.2
 Cray T3E v2.0.4.61
 FreeBSD v3.2
 HP-UX v10.20
 IRIX v6.5
 IRIX64 v6.5 (-64 and -n32)
 Linux (SuSE and RedHat)
 OSF1 v4.0
 Solaris v2.6
 Solaris x86 v2.5.1
 TFLOPS v1.0.4
 Windows NT (MSVC++ 5.0 and 6.0)


Release of HDF5.0 Beta Image Conversion Tools

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A beta version of the HDF5.0 Image Conversion suite of tools is
now available. These tools are the first to implement the new
HDF5 image and palette specifications. The conversion suite of
tools convert data from other formats into HDF5. The format
converters include GIF '87 & '89, TIFF 6.0, PPM, and PGM. The
latter two will convert from the Poskanzer suite of image
converters, which opens up interchange to a great many more
formats.

These can be downloaded from the NCSA ftp server at:

 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF5/tools/



HDF 4.1r3: AIX 4.3 support

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


HDF 4.1r3 supports AIX 4.3. The pre-compiled binaries for
AIX 4.3 can be downloaded from the NCSA ftp server at:

 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF/HDF_Current/bin/aix/

To build HDF on AIX 4.3, you must obtain not only the
HDF 4.1r3 source code, but the fixed 'hdfi.h' file available
from the patches/ directory:

 HDF 4.1r3 source code:
 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF/HDF_Current/tar/

 New 'hdfi.h' file:
 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF/HDF_Current/patches/aix4.3/

Replace the ./HDF4.1r3/hdf/src/hdfi.h file in the source code with
this new version.


HDF 4.1r3: Codewarrior 4 Support

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


HDF 4.1r3 has been tested on the Macintosh Power PC running
MacOS 8.5.1 with MetroWerks Codewarrior 4. We provide the
pre-compiled binaries and project files for Codewarrior 4
on the NCSA ftp server at:

 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF/HDF_Current/hqx/CW4/

To build HDF with Codewarrior 4, you need to download the
Macintosh source code, in addition to the project files:

 HDF 4.1r3 Macintosh Source Code:
 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF/HDF_Current/hqx/4.1r3_mac.src.hqx

 Codewarrior 4 Project Files:
 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF/HDF_Current/hqx/CW4/CW4Projects.sea.hqx

Please refer to the CW4Projects.txt file for further details on
building HDF with Codewarrior 4:

 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF/HDF_Current/hqx/CW4/CW4Projects.txt


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu


