==================
HDF Newsletter #44
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #44
 August 10, 1999

CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. Release of HCR Tools 2.0v1.3 * Visit the HDF home page *

 * for up-to-date information *
 * *
 * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HCR Tools 2.0v1.3

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF Configuration Record (HCR) Tools Release 2.0v1.3 is freely available
for public access. HCR is a tools suite that provides an easy interface
to create, modify and access HDF-EOS files. This release has been
upgraded to work with the latest official releases of the HDF-EOS library
(2.4v1.00) and HDF library (v4.1r3 mostly). It has also been ported to
several platforms. Below are the compiled HCR executable files in binary
form for the supported platforms:

 hcr_solaris2.6.tar -- For Sun Solaris2.6(SunOS 5.6).
 hcr_irix.tar -- For SGI IRIX 5.3 or higher including IRIX64 6.2
 or higher. It was compiled in the old o32
 object mode.
 hcr_irix6.5.tar -- For SGI IRIX(or IRIX64) 6.5. It was compiled
 in new n32 object mode.
 hcr_hpux10.20.tar -- For HP-UX 10.20.
 hcr_dec.tar -- For DEC OSF1 v4.0.

The software can be retrieved via anonymous ftp at the following
URL: ftp://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/pub/HCR/Software/

For installation instructions, download the compressed tar file for
one of files listed above, untar the file ("tar -xf filename") and
view the README file.

The HCR home page is located at:
 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/hcr.html


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu



