==================
HDF Newsletter #49
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #49
 December 21, 1999


CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. Release of HDF5-1.2.1 * Visit the HDF home page *

 - Bug fixes since HDF5-1.2.0 * for up-to-date information *
 - Platforms Tested * *
 - Known Problems * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


Release of HDF5-1.2.1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


HDF5 version 1.2.1 is now available. You can download source code from
the NCSA ftp server at:

 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF5/hdf5-1.2.1/

The HDF5 home page is located at:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/

The HDF5-1.2.1 documentation is included with the source code.
It can also be found at http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc_R1.2.1

HDF5-1.2.1 binaries and updated Web pages will be available after
the New Year without further notice.



Bug fixes since HDF5-1.2.0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Configuration
-------------

 * The hdf5.h include file was fixed to allow the HDF5 Library to be compiled
 with other libraries/applications that use GNU autoconf.
 * Configuration for parallel HDF5 was improved. Configure now attempts to
 link with libmpi.a and/or libmpio.a as the MPI libraries by default.
 It also uses "mpirun" to launch MPI tests by default. It tests to
 link MPIO routines during the configuration stage, rather than failing

.. code-block:: c

    later as before. One can just do "./configure --enable-parallel"
    if the MPI library is in the system library.


Dataset region references

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 * Error was fixed which was not allowing dataset region references to have
 their regions retrieved correctly.

Tools
------

 * Added an option, -V, to show the version information of h5dump.
 * Fixed a core dumping bug of h5toh4 when executed on platforms like
 TFLOPS.
 * The test script for h5toh4 used to not able to detect the hdp
 dumper command was not valid. It now detects and reports the
 failure of hdp execution.

Documentation
-------------

 * User's Guide and Reference Manual were updated.
 See doc/html/PSandPDF/index.html for more details.


Platforms Tested:
================
 Note: Due to the nature of bug fixes, only static versions of the library and tools were tested.


 AIX 4.3.2 (IBM SP) 3.6.6
 Cray T3E 2.0.4.81 cc 6.3.0.1
 mpt.1.3
 FreeBSD 3.3-STABLE gcc 2.95.2
 HP-UX B.10.20 HP C HP92453-01 A.10.32
 IRIX 6.5 MIPSpro cc 7.30
 IRIX64 6.5 (64 & n32) MIPSpro cc 7.3.1m
 mpt.1.3 (SGI MPI 3.2.0.0)

 Linux 2.2.10 SuSE egcs-2.91.66 configured with
 (i686-pc-linux-gnu) --disable-hsizet
 mpich-1.2.0 egcs-2.91.66 19990314/Linux

 OSF1 V4.0 DEC-V5.2-040
 SunOS 5.6 cc WorkShop Compilers 4.2 no optimization
 SunOS 5.7 cc WorkShop Compilers 5.0
 TFLOPS 2.8 cicc (pgcc Rel 3.0-5i)
 mpich-1.1.2 with local changes
 Windows NT4.0 sp5 MSVC++ 6.0

Known Problems:
==============

o SunOS 5.6 with C WorkShop Compilers 4.2: Hyperslab selections will
 fail if library is compiled using optimization of any level.

o h5dump does not display correctly committed copy of predefined types.

o h5dump has problems displaying compound datatypes.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu


