==================
HDF Newsletter #66
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #66
 February 22, 2002


CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. Release of HDF5-1.4.3 * *

 - New Features and Changes * Visit the HDF home page *
 - Bug Fixes * for up-to-date information *
 - Platforms Tested * *
 - Known Problems * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *
 * *

. HDF5 High Level API Software Release *******************************
 (beta 0.2)

. Dropping Support for Windows 98

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5-1.4.3

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


HDF5-1.4.3 is now available for download. You can obtain the
HDF5-1.4.3 software from the HDF5 home page at:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/

The HDF5 documentation is included in the source code and can also
be downloaded from:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc/

This is a fully tested release. The configuration features supported
in this release can be viewed at:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/release/SuppConfigFeats.html


New Features
------------

Major new features in HDF5 include:

 * A helper script called ``h5cc'', which helps compilation of HDF5
 programs, is now distributed with HDF5. See the reference manual
 for information on how to use this feature.

 * Changed prototype for H5Awrite from:

.. code-block:: c

    H5Awrite(hid_t attr_id, hid_t type_id, void *buf)
    to:
    H5Awrite(hid_t attr_id, hid_t type_id, const void *buf)


 * Several changes to the C++ API were made, including
 support for Windows and the addition of the operator= to
 class PredType.

 * Added HDF5 library performance tests, and made several performance
 improvements (to hyperslabs, data conversions, and chunking).

 * Parallel C HDF5 now works on HP-UX platforms, Compaq clusters,
 Linux clusters, Cplants (alpha-linux clusters).

 * The HDF5 F90 shared library is now supported on Windows platforms.

 * The HDF5 C Library is now supported on IA32 and IA64 platforms.

Further information can be found in the RELEASE.txt file that comes with the
source code:

 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF5/current/src/unpacked/release_docs/RELEASE.txt


Bug Fixes
=========

Some of the major bug fixes in this release are listed below:

 * Fixed a bug when reading chunked datasets where the edge of the dataset
 would be incorrectly detected and generate an assertion failure.

 * Fixed a bug where reading an entire dataset wasn't being handled
 optimally when the dataset had unlimited dimensions. Dataset is read
 in a single low-level I/O operation now, instead of being broken into
 separate pieces internally.

 * Fixed a bug where reading or writing chunked data which needed a
 datatype conversion could result in data values getting corrupted.

.. code-block:: c

    * Fixed a bug where appending a point selection to the current selection
    would not actually append the point when there were no points defined
    currently.


 * Fixed a bug where 'or'ing a hyperslab with a 'none' selection would
 fail. Now adds that hyperslab as the first hyperslab in the selection.

 * Fixed an off-by-one error in H5Sselect_valid which would allow hyperslab
 selections which overlapped the edge of the selection by one element as
 valid.

 * Corrected behavior of H5Tinsert to not allow compound datatype fields to
 be inserted past the end of the datatype.

 * Fixed bug where variable-length datatypes for attributes were not working
 correctly.

 * Fixed bug where raw data re-allocated from the free-list would sometimes
 overlap with the metadata accumulator and get corrupted.

 * Fixed bug where a preempted chunk in the chunk data could still be
 used by an internal pointer and cause an assertion failure or core
 dump.

 * Fixed bug where non-zero fill-value was not being read correctly from
 certain chunked datasets when using an "all" or contiguous hyperslab
 selection.

Further information can be found in the RELEASE.txt file that comes with the
source code.


Platforms Tested
================

 AIX 4.3.3.0 (IBM SP powerpc) xlc 5.0.2.0
 mpcc_r 5.0.2.0
 xlf 07.01.0000.0002
 mpxlf 07.01.0000.0002
 AIX 4.3 (IBM SP RS6000) C for AIX Compiler, Version 5.0.2.0
 xlf 7.1.0.2
 poe 3.1.0.12 (includes mpi)
 Cray T3E sn6711 2.0.5.57 Cray Standard C Version 6.5.0.3
 Cray Fortran Version 3.5.0.4
 Cray SV1 10.0.0.8 Cray Standard C Version 6.5.0.3
 Cray Fortran Version 3.5.0.4
 FreeBSD 4.5 gcc 2.95.3
 g++ 2.95.3
 HP-UX B.11.00 HP C HP92453-01 A.11.01.20
 HP F90 v2.4
 HP-UX B.11.00 SysV HP C HP92453-01 A.11.01.20
 HP F90 v2.4
 HP MPI [not a product] (03/24/2000) B6060BA
 IRIX 6.5 MIPSpro cc 7.30
 IRIX64 6.5 (64 & n32) MIPSpro cc 7.3.1.2m
 Linux 2.4.9-13smp gcc 2.95.3
 g++ 2.95.3
 Linux 2.2.18smp gcc 2.95.2
 gcc 2.95.2 with mpich 1.2.1
 g++ 2.95.2
 pgf90 3.2-4
 OSF1 V5.1 Compaq C V6.3-028
 Compaq Fortran V5.4-1283
 SunOS 5.7 WorkShop Compilers 5.0 98/12/15 C 5.0
 (Solaris 2.7) Workshop Compilers 5.0 98/12/15 C++ 5.0
 Workshop Compilers 5.0 98/10/25
 FORTRAN 90 2.0 Patch 107356-04
 SunOS 5.8/32 Sun WorkShop 6 update 1 C 5.2 2000/09/11
 (Solaris 2.8) Sun WorkShop 6 update 1 Fortran 95 6.1
 Patch 109503-07 2001/08/11
 Sun WorkShop 6 update 1 C++ 5.2 Patch
 109508-04 2001/07/11
 SunOS 5.8/64 Sun WorkShop 6 update 1 C 5.2 2000/09/11
 (Solaris 2.8) Sun WorkShop 6 update 1 Fortran 95 6.1
 Patch 109503-07 2001/08/11
 Sun WorkShop 6 update 1 C++ 5.2 Patch
 109508-04 2001/07/11
 TFLOPS r1.0.4 v4.0.8 i386 pgcc Rel 3.1-4i with mpich-1.2.1 with
 local modifications
 IA-32 Linux 2.2.19smpx cc Intel 5.0.1
 egcs-2.91.66
 IA-64 Linux 2.4.16 ia64 gcc version 2.96 20000731
 Intel(R) C++ Itanium(TM) Compiler
 for the Itanium(TM)-based applications,
 Version 6.0 Beta, Build 20010905
 Windows 2000 (NT5.0) MSVC++ 6.0
 DEC Visual Fortran 6.0
 Windows NT4.0 MSVC++ 6.0
 DEC Visual Fortran 6.0
 Windows NT4.0 Code Warrior 6.0
 Windows 98 MSVC++ 6.0
 DEC Visual Fortran 6.0


Known Problems
--------------

For details on the known problems in this release, refer to the
RELEASE.txt file or known problems web page:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/release/known_problems5.html



HDF5 High Level API Software Release (beta 0.2)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The latest release of the HDF5 High Level API software is now available
from the HDF5 Home Page. The URL is:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/hdf5_hl/doc/

This release includes:

 o The following new Table functions:

 H5TBdelete_record
 H5TBinsert_record
 H5TBadd_records_from
 H5TBcombine_tables
 H5TBinsert_field
 H5TBdelete_field

 o Several function changes

 o Additional test/example programs for the Table API.

 o The windows installation procedure has been improved.
 There is now an "all" project that builds the hdf5_hl library and
 all the tests/examples. There is also a batch file that can be run
 from the command line to test all the hdf5_hl tests/examples.
 Note the change in location of the INSTALL.txt file, as follows:

 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF5/hdf5_hl/


Dropping Support for Windows 98

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


This is the last release that we will be supporting Windows 98
in HDF5.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu

