==================
HDF Newsletter #67
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #67
 April 18, 2002


CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 * *

. HDF Java Products Release * Visit the HDF home page *

 * for up-to-date information *

. Beta Release of H4toH5 Conversion * *
 Library * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *

 * *

. Cray Support *******************************


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

HDF Java Products Release

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We are pleased to announce the first release of the HDF Java Products.

We have revised and reorganized the earlier Java HDF Products into a new
product called HDF Java Products. The first release of the new software
contains:

 - The Java HDF Interface (JHI) to access the HDF4 library.

 - The Java HDF5 Interface (JHI5) to access the HDF5 library.

 - The new hdf-object package, a pure Java implementation of an
 abstract model of data, which can read data from either HDF4 or HDF5.

 - HDFView, a Java-based tool for browsing and editing HDF4 and HDF5
 files.

The web page for the new HDF Java Products is located at:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/hdf-java-html/

This software has been tested on SGI IRIX 6.5, Linux, Solaris,
and Windows platforms.

NOTE: This software will eventually replace both the Java HDF Products
for HDF 4.x and the Java HDF5 Products for HDF5.



Beta Release of H4toH5 Conversion Library

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A beta release of the H4toH5 conversion library is now available.

This release contains both the H4toH5 conversion library as well as
the h4toh5 and h5toh4 utilities. (These utilities are the same
as those provided with the HDF5-1.4.3 release.)

Pre-compiled binaries (library and utilities) are available
for the following platforms:

 HP-UX 11.00
 IRIX 6.5
 IRIX64 6.5
 Linux 2.2.18smp
 Solaris 2.7
 Windows NT 5.0

The software can be obtained from the H4toH5 Conversion Library page:
 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/h4toh5/libh4toh5.html

For further details on HDF4 vs. HDF5 issues, see the page:
 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/h4toh5/


Cray Support
============

The Cray computers that we use for building HDF/HDF5 are being retired.
We are therefore considering dropping support for the Crays. If you are a
Cray user and you use HDF or HDF5, please let us know as soon as possible.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu

