==================
HDF Newsletter #70
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #70
 October 14, 2002

CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. New h5import Tool * *

 * Visit the HDF home page *

. Changes to H5LT Attribute Functions * for up-to-date information *

 * *

. Dropping Support for Linux 2.2, * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *
 HP-UX 10.20, and IRIX Legacy Platforms * *

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. Mail Server Down 10/10/02

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

New h5import Tool
=================

We have been developing a new tool, h5import, for converting data stored
in one or more ASCII or binary files into one or more datasets in an
existing or new HDF5 file.

The h5import utility can accept the following types of input data:

.. code-block:: fortran

    1. ASCII text file with numeric data (floating point or integer data).

    2. Binary file with native floating point data (32-bit or 64-bit)

    3. Binary file with native integer (signed or unsigned)
    data (8-bit or 16-bit or 32-bit or 64-bit).


 4. ASCII text file containing strings (text data). (Not implemented)


If you would like to read about this tool, see:
 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/RFC/H5tools/h5import.txt

If you would like to obtain a pre-release version of this tool, send a
message to hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu. We'll be making it available from
our ftp server in the near future.



Changes to H5LT Attribute Functions

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


New attribute functions have been added to the H5LT Application
Programming Interface located in the HDF5 High Level APIs.

There are seven new H5LTget_attribute_* functions for string, char,
short, int, long, float, and double.

In addition, the H5LTget_attribute_ndims and H5LTget_attribute_info

.. code-block:: c

   functions were changed to have a new list of parameters.


The latest software with these changes can be downloaded from:
 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/hdf5_hl/doc/



Dropping Support for Linux 2.2, HP-UX 10.20, and IRIX Legacy Platforms

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF group would like to drop software support for Linux 2.2
(RedHat 6.x), HP-UX 10.20, and some SGI legacy platforms and focus
our resources on supporting Linux 2.4 (RedHat 7.x), HP-UX 11.00 and
SGI IRIX64. The SGI legacy platforms being dropped are Indigo, Indy,
Indigo2/R4000/R5000, and O2 which support only 32-bit applications.

In particular, Linux 2.4 supports many new features including larger
files sizes. Also, we will continue to support SGI IRIX64 built with
the -n32 option which should work on the older IRIX systems.

Please let us know as soon as possible if this will cause problems
for you.



Mail Server Down 10/10/02

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Our mail server was down on Thursday, October 10th and some mail was lost.
If you sent a message to the HDF Helpdesk (hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu) on that
day and did not receive a response, please re-send your message.





-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu

