==================
HDF Newsletter #72
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #72
 July 11, 2003

CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. Release of HDF5-1.6.0 * *

 - New Features and Changes * Visit the HDF home page *
 - Platforms Tested * for up-to-date information *
 - Known Problems * *
 - SZIP License Information * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *
 * *

. Release of H4 to H5 Conversion Library *******************************
 Version 1.1

. Release of HDF5 High Level APIs Version 1.2.0

. HDF and HDF-EOS Workshop VII

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5-1.6.0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We are pleased to announce the release of HDF5-1.6.0.

HDF5-1.6.0 is now available for download from the NCSA HDF5 home
page at:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/

The HDF5 documentation is included in the source code and can also
be accessed from:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc/

This is a fully tested release. The configuration features supported
in this release can be viewed at:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/release/SuppConfigFeats.html

The RELEASE.txt file in the source code contains detailed information
about this release:

 ftp://ftp.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF/HDF5/current/src/unpacked/release_docs/RELEASE.txt

For information on functions that have changed in HDF5-1.6.0, see:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc/ADGuide/Changes.html


New Features and Changes

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The major new features in HDF5-1.6.0 are:

 o Generic properties to give applications more flexibility and better
 organization.

 The HDF5 properties were redesigned to implement the property list
 as an object. In addition to the predefined property lists, users
 can now create or modify their own property lists.

 o Compact storage layout for datasets. This layout allows small datasets
 to be stored in the object header, to improve performance.

 o Redesigned I/O for better performance. The internal design of
 chunked data I/O has been changed to better handle data caching.
 Also, the internal design of hyperslab selection has been improved
 in a variety of ways. Several new hyperslab functions have been
 added to the API, as well.

 o New filters:

 - An external compression filter for szip. Please refer to
 the following page regarding szip compression and license
 information:
 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc_resource/SZIP/index.html

 - An internal shuffling filter. The combination of shuffling
 and compression can be used to improve the data compression ratio.

 - An internal checksum filter (Fletcher32 Error Detection Code)
 allows you to check the integrity of an HDF5 file.

 The RELEASE.txt file contains more information on these filters.

 o The addition of space allocation time and value filling time
 properties.

 API calls have been added to set not only the fill value, but
 also the space allocation and value-filling time for a dataset.

.. code-block:: c

    These parameters allow the user to control when the library
    allocates space for data and writes fill values.



Other important changes in HDF5 include:

 o Added a new API function to get the name of an object using an
 open ID (hid_t).

 o The library now correctly reuses space when objects are deleted in
 the file. This works properly except with datasets that use
 variable-length datatypes.

 o Added two new scripts, h5fc and h5c++, for compiling F90
 and C++ HDF5 applications.

 o A new function (H5Fget_obj_count) has been added to retrieve the
 open IDS for objects in a file.

 o The h5diff utility has been added for comparing two HDF5 files.

 o The h5import utility has been added to import ASCII and binary
 data to an HDF5 file.

Please refer to the RELEASE.txt file in the source code for further
details.



Platforms Tested
----------------

 AIX 5.1 (32 and 64-bit)
 Cray T3E sn6606 2.0.6.08
 Cray SV1 sn9617 10.0.1.2
 Cray T90IEEE 10.0.1.01y
 FreeBSD 4.7
 HP-UX B.11.00
 IRIX 6.5
 IRIX64 6.5 (64 & n32)
 Linux 2.4.18
 OSF1 V5.1
 SunOS 5.7 (Solaris 2.7) (32 and 64-bit)
 SunOS 5.8 (Solaris 2.8) (32 and 64-bit)
 TFLOPS r1.0.4 v4.3.3 i386
 IA-32 Linux 2.4.9
 IA-64 Linux 2.4.16 ia64
 Windows 2000 (NT5.0)
 Windows XP
 MAC OS X

For compiler information please refer to the following page or to the
RELEASE.txt file:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/release/platforms5.html



Known Problems
--------------

Known problems at release time are listed in the RELEASE.txt file that
comes with the source code.

Further information on known problems can be found on the following page:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/release/known_problems5.html


SZIP License Information

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


This is the first release for which we support SZIP compression
in HDF5.

For SZIP license information, as well as other SZIP information, please
refer to the following page:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc_resource/SZIP/index.html


Release of H4 to H5 Conversion Library Version 1.1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A new release of the H4 to H5 Conversion Library, version 1.1,
is now available for download from the following page:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/h4toh5/

This version was tested with HDF5-1.6.0. Pre-compiled
binaries are not included with this release.


Release of HDF5 High Level APIs Version 1.2.0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A new release of the HDF5 High Level APIS, version 1.2.0,
is now available for download from the following page:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/hdf5_hl/

This version was tested with HDF5-1.6.0. Pre-compiled
binaries are not included with this release.


HDF and HDF-EOS Workshop VII

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF and HDF-EOS Workshop VII was announced. It will be held
from September 23-25th in Silver Spring, MD. For details, see:

 http://hdfeos.gsfc.nasa.gov/hdfeos/index.cfm


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu


