==================
HDF Newsletter #78
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #78
 June 14, 2004

CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. Flexible Parallel HDF5 Alpha1 Release * *

 * Visit the HDF home page *
 * for up-to-date information *
 * *
 * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *
 * *

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Flexible Parallel HDF5 Alpha1 Release

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The Alpha1 release of Flexible Parallel HDF5 (FPHDF5) is now available.
It is a prototype implementation with limited features. Its purpose
is to test the general concept and programming interface of the
Flexible Parallel HDF5 API. You will find more design and implementation
details on the following webpage:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/Parallel_HDF/PHDF5/FPH5/


How to build
------------
Download:

 ftp://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/pub/outgoing/hdf5/FPH5/hdf5-1.7.24-fph5_alpha1.gz

Untar it and follow the configure command in the next paragraph.

If you need more detailed instructions on how to build the HDF5 software,
you can read the file, README.txt, in the untarred directory and follow
it from there.


CONFIGURE
---------

.. code-block:: c

   To configure the FPHDF5 feature, do the usual parallel HDF5
   configure plus "--enable-fphdf5". E.g.,


 env CC=mpicc ./configure --enable-parallel --enable-fphdf5


Features Supported
------------------

+ Create groups and datasets independently
+ Support fixed dimension datasets only


Machines supported
------------------
LANL QSC
LANL Theta
LLNL Blue, Frost
SNL Tflops
Linux Mpich
NCSA Coppper (AIX 5.1)


PHDF5 Example Code
------------------
In the source directory, check out this file,
 testpar/t_fphdf5.c


Known problems
--------------
Limited up to 9 processes. Will fail when run with 10 or more processes.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding this or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu

