==================
HDF Newsletter #87
==================

To subscribe/unsubscribe to the hdfnews mailing list, please send your
request to ncsalist@ncsa.uiuc.edu with the appropriate command (e.g.
subscribe hdfnews, unsubscribe hdfnews, help) in the *body* of the message.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #87
 April 20, 2006

CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. Release of HDF5 1.8.0 Alpha 1 * *

 - New Features * Visit the HDF home page *
 * for up-to-date information *
 * *
 * http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ *
 * *

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5 1.8.0 Alpha 1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The Alpha 1 release of HDF5 1.8.0 is now available from:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/release/alpha/obtain518.html

Please note that this is an alpha release and not a formal release.
We are making this available for users who are interested in trying
out new features in the HDF5 1.8.0 release.

The 1.8.0 release represents a major update in the HDF5 library
and utilities. Many new capabilities have been added, along with
improved performance.

However, the HDF5 1.8.0 Alpha 1 release does NOT include all functions
that will be in the final 1.8.0 release, and some features (function
names, behavior) MAY CHANGE before the final 1.8.0 release.

In this release:

 - Not all features are included.
 - Not all platforms have been tested.
 - The backward and forward compatibility of the software has NOT been
 tested.


New Features
------------

The new features available in HDF5 1.8.0 are described here. To obtain
more information about these new features, be sure to read the
"What's New in HDF5 1.8.0-alpha1" document located at:

 http://hdf.ncsa.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc_1.8pre/WhatsNew180.html

The "What's New in HDF5 1.8.0-alpha1" document also includes information
about features in the Alpha 1 release that may change, as well as features
that are not yet in the Alpha 1 release, but will be in the final 1.8.0
release.

The following features are stable and available in HDF5 1.8.0-alpha 1:

o Collective Chunk I/O in Parallel: The library now attempts to use the
 MPI collective mode when performing I/O on chunked datasets when using
 the parallel I/O file driver.

o New Chunked Dataset Filters: These new I/O filters allow better
 compression of certain types of data:

 - N-Bit Filter: This filter compresses data which uses N-bit datatypes.

.. code-block:: fortran

    - Scale+Offset Filter: This filter compresses scalar (integer and
    floating-point) datatypes that stay within a range.


o Transforms on Data Transfer: This feature allows arithmetic operations
 (add/subtract/multiply/divide) to be performed on data elements as they
 are being written to/read from a file.

o Text-to-datatype and datatype-to-text conversions: This feature enables
 the creation of a datatype from a text definition of that datatype and
 the creation of a formal text definition from a datatype. The text
 definition is in DDL format.

 H5LTtext_to_dtype() creates an HDF5 datatype based on a text

.. code-block:: c

    description and returns a datatype identifier. Given a datatype
    identifier, H5LTdtype_to_text() creates a DDL description of a
    datatype.

   o Support for Integer-to-Floating-point Conversion: It is now possible
    for the HDF5 library to convert between integer and floating-point
    datatypes.


o Revised Datatype Conversion Exception Handling: It is now possible for
 an application to have greater control over exceptional circumstances
 (range errors, etc.) during datatype conversion.

o Serialized Datatypes and Dataspaces: A set of routines has been added
 to serialize or deserialize HDF5 datatypes and dataspaces. These
 routines allow datatype and dataspace information to be transmitted
 between processes or stored in non-HDF5 files.

o NULL Dataspace: A new type of dataspace has been added, which allows
 datasets without any elements to be described.

o Extendible ID API: A new set of ID management routines has been added,
 which allows an application to use the HDF5 ID-to-object mapping routines.

o Re-implementation of the Metadata Cache: The metadata cache has been
 re-implemented to reduce the cache memory requirements when working
 with complex HDF5 files and to improve performance. New functions have
 also been added for managing the metadata cache.

o High-Level Fortran APIs: Fortran APIs have been added for
 HDF5 Lite (H5LT), HDF5 Image (H5IM), and HDF5 Table (H5TB).

o New High-Level APIs: A Packet Table API has been added to the high-level
 interfaces. These routines are designed to allow variable-length records
 to be added to tables easily.

o A Dimension Scales API has been added to the high-level interfaces.

o Tool Improvements: One new tool has been added, and existing tools were
 enhanced.

 - h5stat, a new tool, is still in development and may change.
 It allows HDF5 files to be analyzed in various ways to
 determine useful statistics about objects in the file.

 - Improved speed of h5dump: Performance improvements have been
 made to h5dump to speed it up when dealing with files that have
 large numbers of objects.

o Better UNIX/Linux Portability: This release now uses the latest GNU
 auto tools (autoconf, automake, and libtool) to provide much better
 portability between many machine and OS configurations. Building the
 HDF5 distribution can now be performed in parallel (with the
 gmake "-j" flag), speeding up the process of building, testing and
 installing the HDF5 distribution. Many other improvements have gone
 into the build infrastructure as well.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 hdfhelp@ncsa.uiuc.edu


