==================
HDF Newsletter #89
==================

 December 15, 2006

CONTENTS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

. The HDF Group (THG) Update * *

 * Visit the THG home page *

. Newsletter Address Change * for up-to-date information *

 * *
 * http://hdfgroup.org/ *
 * *

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

The HDF Group (THG) Update

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


As many of you are aware, The HDF Group (THG) separated from the
University of Illinois' National Center for Supercomputing
Applications and formed a not-for-profit corporation. Being
an independent entity is critical to the long-term sustainability
of the HDF technologies.

THG's web site can be found at:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/

As part of this spin-off, we are (slowly) moving the HDF/HDF5 software
from the NCSA machines to systems of our own. For now, the HDF/HDF5
software remains available from NCSA's FTP server; the software's move
to THG's FTP servers will be announced in a future edition of this
newsletter.

Thank you for bearing with us through all of these changes.


Newsletter Address Change

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Also as a part of the spin-off, the hdfnews@ncsa.uiuc.edu mailing list
is moving.

This message is the LAST newsletter to be sent to the
hdfnews@ncsa.uiuc.edu address. The new mailing list for HDF news is:

 news@hdfgroup.org

The current hdfnews@ncsa.uiuc.edu subscription list will be moved to
the new mailing list; you should NOT need to subscribe to the new
list if you already receive the newsletter.

This mailing list will ONLY be used to disseminate HDF news and
related announcements. Users will not be able to send messages to
this list. We will add a new list in the future enabling users to
discuss HDF issues.

To subscribe to this list send an empty message to:
 news-subscribe@hdfgroup.org

To unsubscribe send an empty message to:
 news-unsubscribe@hdfgroup.org

Thank you for all of your support and have a safe and happy
holiday season!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

