==================
HDF Newsletter #96
==================

THG Home Page: http://hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk & Mailing Lists Info: http://hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #96
 October 9, 2007

CONTENTS

 . Release of HDF 4.2r2

 - New Features and Changes
 - Platforms Tested
 - Known Problems

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF 4.2r2

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We are pleased to announce the release of HDF 4.2r2. It
can be downloaded from the following location:

 http://hdfgroup.org/release4/obtain.html

The HDF 4 web page is located at:

 http://hdfgroup.org/products/hdf4/index.html

Not all of the pre-compiled binaries have been generated for
HDF 4.2r2. They should be available within the next week.

The documentation for HDF 4.2r2 can be obtained from:

 http://hdfgroup.org/doc.html

The RELEASE.txt file in the source code contains detailed
information about this release:

 ftp://ftp.hdfgroup.org/HDF/HDF_Current/src/RELEASE-4.2r2.txt



New Features and Changes

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


o Several new APIs have been added to the SD and GR interfaces:

 + SDreset_maxopenfiles, SDget_maxopenfiles, SDget_numopenfiles:
 For modifying and checking the maximum allowed number of files.

 + SDgetcompinfo, GRgetcompinfo: Gets compression information. These
 functions replaced SDgetcompress and GRgetcompress.

 + SDgetfilename: Retrieves the name of the file, given its ID.

 + SDgetnamelen: Retrieves the length of an object's name, given its ID.

o SZIP compression has been added for Fortran, and SZIP compression has
 also been added to the GR interface.

o The problem has been fixed where corruption could occur when a 1-Dimensional
 SDS had the same name as a dimension. However, be aware that:

 + It is impossible to recover the data that was already corrupted.

 + For existing data that has not been corrupted, the problem was
 fixed for multi-dimensional SDSs only. If the SDS had only one
 dimension, the results of subsequent accesses to the dimension
 would still be unpredictable.

.. code-block:: fortran

   o SDS and Vgroup names are no longer limited to 64 characters.


o The maximum number of files that can be opened at the same time is
 no longer limited to 32. In this release, if this limit is reached, the
 library will increase it to the system limit, minus 3 to account for stdin,
 stdout, and stderr.

o A command-line option (-u) was added to ncdump to enable a user to

.. code-block:: fortran

    replace non-alphanumeric characters in SDS names with underscores, if
    desired. The default behavior is to print what is actually in the file.


o New error codes were added to the HDF library. Please refer to the
 RELEASE.txt file and other HDF4 documentation for more information.

o Several new platforms are supported: Mac Intel, FreeBSD 64-bit,
 Solaris 10 Intel, Linux 2.6 and HP-UX 11.23 (32-bit, 64-bit).

o Several changes were made to the HDF configuration, including:

 . The --enable-netcdf flag was introduced.
 . The autotools versions were updated.

o Many bugs have been fixed in hrepack and hdiff.

Please refer to the RELEASE.txt file for a comprehensive list of
changes in this release.


Platforms Tested
----------------

Platforms that were tested with this release are:

 AIX 5.3 (32-bit, 64-bit)
 Free BSD 6.2 (32-bit, 64-bit)
 HP-UX B.11.23 (32-bit, 64-bit)
 IRIX 64 v6.5 (32-bit, 64 bit)
 Linux 2.4, 2.6
 Linux ia64
 Linux x86_64
 Sun OS 5.8, 5.10 (32-bit, 64-bit)
 Windows XP, Vista
 Mac OS X Intel

For detailed information on platforms and compilers, please
refer to the RELEASE.txt file.


Known Problems
--------------

o hdfcomp fails on HPUX 11.23 for the 64-bit version of the library

o This release does not support VMS systems.

o N-Bit compression is not supported with Fortran APIs.

o Using both fill-value and compression at the same time on an SDS
 does not work.

o When using PGI compilers, make sure that the JPEG library is also compiled
 with a PGI C compiler; linking with JPEG built with gcc causes JPEG library
 tests to fail. To bypass the problem:

 x Set LIBS flag to $PGI_JPEG_INSTALL_DIR/lib/libjpeg.a
 where $PGI_JPEG_INSTALL_DIR points to the installation directory
 for the PGI-compiled JPEG library:

 setenv LIBS $PGI_JPEG_INSTALL_DIR/lib/libjpeg.a

 x Use the --with-jpeg=$PGI_JPEG_INSTALL_DIR configure flag to
 configure with the PGI-compiled JPEG library:

 ./configure --with-jpeg=$PGI_JPEG_INSTALL_DIR --with-zlib....



