==================
HDF Newsletter #97
==================

THG Home Page: http://hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk & Mailing Lists Info: http://hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #97
 October 23, 2007

CONTENTS
 . Release of HDF5 1.8.0 Beta 4

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5 1.8.0 Beta 4

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The Beta 4 release of HDF5 1.8.0 is now available from:

 http://www.hdfgroup.uiuc.edu/HDF5/release/beta/obtain518.html

A list of the new features in HDF5 1.8.0 can be found at:

 http://www.hdfgroup.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc_1.8pre/WhatsNew180.html

Documentation for HDF5 1.8.0 Beta 4 can be obtained from the following
location:

 http://www.hdfgroup.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc_1.8pre/


Please note that this release marks a MAJOR SHIFT in APIs that affects how
applications must be COMPILED and LINKED with HDF5 1.8.0.

The following discussion applies to HDF5 C applications only; HDF5 Fortran,
C++, and Java applications are not affected.

In HDF5 Release 1.8.0, we are introducing new versions of several basic APIs
to accommodate new requirements and features. Thus, in HDF5 1.8.0-beta4,
many commonly used functions, such as H5Gcreate, H5Dcreate, H5Topen, etc.,
have been renamed and macros with the original function names have been
introduced. These macros can be mapped at compile time to either the old or
new versions of the APIs, which can all be available in the library.
"API Compatibility Macros" describes these changes in detail:

 http://www.hdfgroup.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc_1.8pre/doc/RM/APICompatMacros.html

We strongly encourage you to read this document before compiling any
C application(s) with the HDF5 1.8.0-beta4 library.


By default, the beta4 release maps the new macros to the NEW API versions
that are being introduced with release 1.8.0.

This means that C applications that worked with HDF5 Release 1.6.x,
1.8.0-beta3, or earlier, will not link with the HDF5-1.8.0-beta4

.. code-block:: c

   library unless you do one of the following:


 1) Configure and build the application using this compiler flag:
 -D H5_USE_16_API
 2) Configure and build the HDF5 1.8.0-beta4 library using this
 configuration flag:
 --with-default-api-version=v16
 3) Update the application to use the new 1.8.0 signatures.


Also be aware that the use of new features of the HDF5 1.8.0 library can
raise backward and forward compatibility issues that may affect your HDF5
files. The following document describes these issues in detail:

http://www.hdfgroup.uiuc.edu/HDF5/doc_1.8pre/doc/ADGuide/CompatFormat180.html


Please let the THG Helpdesk know if you have any questions!



