===================
HDF Newsletter #102
===================

THG Home Page: http://hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk & Mailing Lists Info: http://hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #102
 June 3, 2008

CONTENTS:

 . Release of HDF5 1.8.1
 . Release of H4-H5 Conversion Software Version 2.0
 . HDF5-OpeNDAP Handler Update
 . ITT Visual Information Solutions and HDF5 Collaboration

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


Release of HDF5 1.8.1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF5 1.8.1 release is now available from the HDF5 home
page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/hdf5/index.html

It can be downloaded from this page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/release/obtain5.html

The documentation for 1.8.1 can be accessed from:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc/

HDF5 1.8.1 is a minor release with several bug fixes. The
most significant change is the addition of an expanded set
of Fortran90 APIs, enabling all the new C library features of
release 1.8.0. See the following for details on these APIs:

 http://hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc/ADGuide/Changes.html

Also, refer to the Release Notes for detailed information on
this release:

 ftp://ftp.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/current/src/hdf5-1.8.1-RELEASE.txt


Release of H4-H5 Conversion Software Version 2.0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A new release of the H4-H5 Conversion Software, version 2.0,
is now available. This version was built with HDF5 1.8.1 and
HDF 4.2r3. The H4toH5 Conversion Library, an element of the
H4-H5 Conversion Software, has not changed.

The software can be downloaded from:

 http://hdfgroup.org/h4toh5/


HDF5-OPeNDAP Handler Update

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF5-OPeNDAP handler version 1.2.2 has been released through the
OPeNDAP website at:

 http://opendap.org/download/hdf5_handler.html

The OPeNDAP software is a software framework that allows simple access to
remote data. The HDF5-OPeNDAP handler allows remote HDF5 files and subsets
of HDF5 files to be accessed locally. One can use the HDF5-OPeNDAP handler
and OPeNDAP clients such as IDV, GrADS, Ferret, ncBrowse, Matlab, NCL, and
ODC to visualize HDF-EOS5 Grid files.

For more information, check the HDF5-OPeNDAP website at:

 http://hdfdap.hdfgroup.uiuc.edu/joomla/


ITT Visual Information Solutions and HDF5 Collaboration

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


THG and ITT Visual Information Solutions (makers of IDL and ENVI) have
begun a collaboration on the development of HDF functionality in IDL.
ITT VIS (http://www.ittvis.com/) has provided THG with IDL software
and licenses; THG will work with the ITT VIS technical staff to
improve the process of integrating the new versions of the HDF software
with IDL. ITT VIS and THG expect this collaboration to help HDF users who
rely on the IDL software to get timely access to the improved HDF libraries.
The collaboration will also allow THG to enable IDL clients to access HDF5
files on remote servers via the OpenDAP protocol.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other THG issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

