===================
HDF Newsletter #114
===================

The HDF Group Home Page: http://hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk & Mailing Lists Info: http://hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #114
 June 15, 2010

CONTENTS

 - Release of HDF5 1.8.5
 - HDF and HDF-EOS Workshop XIV

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5 1.8.5

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF5 1.8.5 release is now available. Many thanks to the users on the
HDF Forum who helped us with this release!

HDF5 1.8.5 can be downloaded from:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/release/obtain5.html

This page can be accessed from The HDF Group Downloads page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/

The HDF5 1.8.5 documentation is located in:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc/

For information on HDF5, see the HDF5 home page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/hdf5/index.html

HDF5 1.8.5 is a minor release, but includes some important new features
and several bug fixes.

New features and changes in this release include the following:

 - This release adds support for building HDF5 using CMake 2.8.1 (See
 http://www.cmake.org/).

 This is the first step in supporting CMake with HDF5. Only a subset of
 the configuration features is available with CMake. The subset includes
 the C, Fortran, C++ and High-Level shared and static libraries, and the
 gzip and szip compression methods.

 Initial work targets building on Windows only, but CMake can be used on
 other platforms, as well. Please refer to the CMake.txt file in the
 release_docs/ directory of the source code for more details on building
 HDF5 with CMake.

 We would like to thank John Biddiscombe and Michael Jackson for introducing
 us to CMake, for contributing the code, fixing bugs and testing on different
 platforms. We would also like to thank Sean McBride for testing HDF5 CMake
 and Solomon Gibbs for sharing his private SZIP library distribution that
 builds with CMake.

 - Various "strict aliasing" problems were fixed in HDF5, allowing higher
 levels of compiler optimization (in particular, allowing '-O3' to work
 with recent versions of GCC).

 - We substantially improved parallel and sequential performance when
 extending a dataset with early allocation. This improvement reduces the
 overhead (i.e. the time spent doing everything but writing to disk) by up
 to 2 orders of magnitude.

 - Packaging has changed for the pre-built binaries that are provided on
 the obtain5.html page. The SZIP and ZLIB external libraries are now
 included within the pre-built binaries to simplify using them. We also
 provide RPMS for 32 and 64-bit Linux platforms. For information on
 installing the RPMS, please see the README:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/current/bin/RPMS/README

 - Several fixes and changes have been made to the tools (h5diff, h5ls,
 h5copy, h5repack and h5dump). Among them are improvements to the handling
 of symbolic links and datasets with object and region references, and a new
 feature to display bits packed into an integer.

 - Several C++ changes are included.

 - AIX 6.1 was added to the list of the tested platforms (sequential only).

For more information, please refer to the RELEASE.txt file that is included
in the source code. It can be accessed from The HDF Group web site here:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/current/src/unpacked/release_docs/RELEASE.txt


HDF and HDF-EOS Workshop XIV

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The fourteenth HDF and HDF-EOS Workshop has been announced.
It will be held in the home city of The HDF Group, in Champaign, Illinois,
from September 28th - 30th, 2010.

For more information regarding the workshop, please visit the workshop
web site:

 http://www.hdfeos.org/workshops/ws14/workshop_fourteen.php


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

