===================
HDF Newsletter #116
===================

The HDF Group Home Page: http://hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk & Mailing Lists Info: http://hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #116
 September 3, 2010

CONTENTS:

 - Release of HDF5 1.8.5-patch1
 - New HDF5 High Level functions for region references, hyperslabs, and bit-fields
 - Pre-release snapshot of HDF-Java 2.7
 - RFC for h5edit tool
 - Events

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5 1.8.5-patch1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


HDF5 1.8.5-patch1 has been released. It is a full source code release,
containing a few important changes and bug fixes, which include:

 - Numerous memory issues were fixed.

 - A bug was fixed that could cause file corruption when using non-default
 sizes of addresses and/or lengths. This bug, introduced in HDF5 1.8.5,
 could also cause uncorrupted files with this property to be unreadable.

 - CMake support for parallel Fortran was added.

To Obtain HDF5 1.8.5-patch1, go directly to:
 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/release/obtain5.html

This link can be reached from the HDF Downloads page:
 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/index.html

The release notes contain detailed information regarding HDF5 1.8.5-patch1:
 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/current/src/hdf5-1.8.5-patch1-RELEASE.txt

The documentation did not change for this release:
 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc/index.html

The HDF5 1.8.6 release will be available in October 2010, for those who prefer
to wait.


New HDF5 High Level functions for region references, hyperslabs, and bit-fields

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We are pleased to announce a new set of C and Fortran convenience functions
designed to facilitate access to remote sensing data in HDF5. The data will be
gathered by a new generation of low earth orbiting satellites that monitor
environmental conditions for long-range weather and climate forecasts.
(Refer to the NPOESS project for details: http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/npoess/)

The source code, installation instructions and a draft of the User's Guide are
available from:

 http://www.hdfgroup.uiuc.edu/ftp/pub/outgoing/NPOESS/source/

The Reference Manual can be found at:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/npoess/HL_NPOESS/doc/index.html

While these functions were created to facilitate access to NPOESS data, some
of them may be useful to anyone working with HDF5 region references, hyperslab
selections, or bit-fields. For a quick introduction to region references and
hyperslab selections see the HDF5 Tutorial:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/Tutor/advanced.html

We are looking forward to receiving your comments on this new set of
routines.


Pre-release snapshot of HDF-Java 2.7

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A pre-release snapshot of HDF-Java 2.7 is available for download from:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/hdf-java-2.7-snapshot/snapshot2/

This version of HDFView includes a new feature to display bit-field data

.. code-block:: fortran

   packed into an integer (a.k.a. NPOESS quality flags). It also includes
   wrappers to support HDF5 1.8 features. For more information see:


 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/hdf-java-2.7-snapshot/snapshot2/RELEASE.txt


RFC for h5edit tool
===================

We are actively seeking input regarding a new tool, h5edit, that is under
development. This tool is a command-line tool for editing HDF5 files.
See the Request For Comments (RFC) page for more information:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/pubs/rfcs/


Events
======

September 28-30, 2010:
 HDF and HDF-EOS Workshop XIV (http://www.hdfeos.org/workshops/ws14/workshop_fourteen.php)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions or comments regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

