===================
HDF Newsletter #120
===================

The HDF Group Home Page: http://hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk & Mailing Lists Info: http://hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #120
 May 13, 2011

CONTENTS
 . Release of HDF5-1.8.7

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5-1.8.7

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF5-1.8.7 release is now available. Many thanks to the users who
helped test this release.

HDF5-1.8.7 can be downloaded from:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/release/obtain5.html

This page can be accessed from The HDF Group Downloads page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/

The HDF5 1.8.7 documentation is located in:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc/

For information on HDF5, see the HDF5 home page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/hdf5/index.html

HDF5 1.8.7 is a minor release, but contains a few important new features
and bug fixes. Changes in this release include the following:

 - The ability to cache files opened through external links was added to the
 library. See the new functions, H5Pset_elink_file_cache_size(),
 H5Pget_elink_file_cache_size(), and H5Fclear_elink_file_cache().

 - Shared C++ and High Level libraries can now be built on AIX.

 - The library now allows a dataspace dimension size to be zero. In the
 past, the library only allowed this if the maximum dimension size was
 unlimited. There is no longer this restriction, but data cannot be
 written to this kind of dataset.

 - Many improvements were made to the tools, particularly h5dump, h5diff,
 h5ls, and h5copy. A few important changes include:

 o A new "verbose with levels" option, '-vN, --verbose=N', was added
 to h5diff.
 o Improvements were made to the h5diff performance.
 o Improvements were made with how h5diff compares attributes.
 o The h5copy utility was fixed to enable copying an object into
 the same HDF5 file.

 - A few fixes were made to the High Level Fortran APIs.

This release contains many other changes not listed here. Please be sure to
read the Release Notes for a comprehensive list of new features and bug
fixes:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/current/src/hdf5-1.8.7-RELEASE.txt



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

