===================
HDF Newsletter #123
===================

The HDF Group Home Page: http://hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk & Mailing Lists Info: http://hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #123
 September 2, 2011

CONTENTS:

 . Release of h5check 2.0.1
 . Release of h5edit 1.0.0
 . Release of h5augjpss 1.0.0
 . HDF5 Birds-of-a-Feather (BOF) at SC11

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of h5check 2.0.1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A new release of the HDF5 Format Checker, h5check version 2.0.1, is now
available. This version was tested with HDF5-1.8.7 and HDF5-1.6.10.

The h5check home page is located at:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/hdf5_tools/h5check.html

The h5check utility can be downloaded from The HDF Group Downloads page
under "HDF5 Standalone Tools":

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/index.html#tools

The h5check utility is a validation tool for verifying that an HDF5
file is encoded according to the HDF File Format Specification. Its
purpose is to ensure data model integrity and long-term compatibility
between evolving versions of the HDF5 library.



Release of h5edit 1.0.0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The first release of the HDF5 file editor, h5edit version 1.0.0, is now
available for download from The HDF Group Downloads page under
"HDF5 Standalone Tools":

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/index.html#tools

It can also be obtained from the JPSS Project Download page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/npoess/jpss_downloads.html

The h5edit utility is a general tool for editing HDF5 files from the
command line. The first release only supports commands for the creation
and deletion of attributes of datasets and groups. Future releases will
include support for more commands and other HDF5 objects.

For information on h5edit, see:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/npoess/h5edit_index.html

.. code-block:: c

   This tool is sponsored by the Joint Polar Satellite System (JPSS)
   and NPOESS Preparatory Project (NPP).



Release of h5augjpss 1.0.0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The first release of h5augjpss, version 1.0.0, is now available from
The HDF Group Downloads page under Projects (JPSS):

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/index.html#projects

It can also be obtained from the JPSS Project Download page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/npoess/jpss_downloads.html

.. code-block:: c

   This tool "augments" or adds modifications to Joint Polar Satellite
   System (JPSS) product files so that they conform to the netCDF-4 data
   model and can be readable by netCDF-4 tools. The h5augjpss utility
   is *not* a general tool, but may be of interest to others in the HDF
   community.


For more information regarding this tool, see:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/npoess/h5augjpss_index.html

.. code-block:: c

   The h5augjpss utility is sponsored by the Joint Polar Satellite
   System (JPSS) and NPOESS Preparatory Project (NPP).



HDF5 Birds-of-a-Feather (BOF) at SC11

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF Group will be leading an HDF5 Birds-of-a-Feather (BOF)
session at SC11 (Supercomputing 2011). SC11 will be held from
November 12-18, 2011 in Seattle, Washington. Be sure to check
the SC11 web page for more details when they are available:

 http://sc11.supercomputing.org/index.php


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

