===================
HDF Newsletter #131
===================

To view from a browser see:
 http://www.hdfgroup.org/newsletters/newsletter131.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF Group Home Page: http://hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk & Mailing Lists Info: http://hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #131
 January 28, 2013

CONTENTS:

 . Release of HDF5-1.8.10-patch1
 . Release of h5edit 1.1.0-beta1
 . HDFView Survey Update
 . RESTful HDF5 Interface Specification 0.1
 . Retirement of HDF-EOS5 to NetCDF-4 Converter

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5-1.8.10-patch1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF5-1.8.10-patch1 release is now available. This is a source code
release only. Pre-compiled binary distributions were not generated for
HDF5-1.8.10-patch1 and the HDF5-1.8.10 pre-built binary distributions
are still available.

This release is available from the HDF Group Downloads page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/

It can also be obtained directly from:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/release/obtain5.html

There are a few notable fixes in HDF5-1.8.10-patch1:

 o The library now behaves correctly when performing large I/O operations
 on Mac OS-X. Previously, I/O operations greater than 2 GB would fail.

 o The h5diff performance has been improved when comparing HDF5 files with
 many attributes.

 o A bug in the core VFD has been fixed that prevented opening files
 greater than 2 GB on some systems (this bug is unrelated to the OS-X
 2 GB issue).

.. code-block:: c

   If you are currently using HDF5-1.8.10 and these changes do not affect you,
   then there is no need to install this patch.


Please refer to the HDF5-1.8.10-patch1 release notes for detailed
information regarding this release:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/current/src/hdf5-1.8.10-patch1-RELEASE.txt

Please note that there is no change to the HDF5-1.8.10 documentation, which
is available from here:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc/

For information on HDF5, see the HDF5 home page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/hdf5/index.html



Release of h5edit 1.1.0-beta1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A new release of h5edit, version 1.1.0-beta1, is now available. New
features and changes in this release include:

 o Support was added for the --atomic option which will maintain a
 backup file that can be used to recover the original data file in
 the event that errors occur. Please see the RFC on the atomicity
 feature for more information about this option:

 ftp:/ftp.hdfgroup.uiuc.edu/pub/outgoing/NPOESS/RFC/H5edit_Atomicity_Requirements+Design-1.pdf

 o In previous releases of h5edit, the testh5edit.sh script received an
 output mismatch error when h5edit used HDF5-1.8.9. This occurred
 because of a change to h5dump, which h5edit uses to verify the test
 output. As of h5edit 1.1.0-beta1 the h5edit output file was updated
 to work with HDF5-1.8.9. Please note that this means that
 h5edit 1.1.0-beta1 is not backward compatible with HDF5 releases prior
 to HDF5-1.8.9.

H5edit is a command line tool to edit HDF5 files. The current version is
limited to operations on attributes only. For more information see:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/npoess/h5edit_index.html



HDFView Survey Update

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Thank you to everyone who participated in the HDFView User Survey. Your
feedback and comments are extremely helpful to us. Please see the
HDFView User Survey Report regarding the responses received, here:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/hdf-java-html/hdfview/hdfview_survey_report_2013.pdf

A link to the survey has been added to the HDFView home page for anyone
who has further comments or suggestions:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/hdf-java-html/hdfview/


RESTful HDF5 Interface Specification 0.1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


RESTful HDF5 Interface Specification 0.1 can be accessed here:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/pubs/papers/RESTful_HDF5.pdf

This document specifies a REST (REpresentational State Transfer)
interface for HDF5 data stores. It describes HDF5 resources, URIs,
and resource representations, and shows a simple example of how to
use this interface to populate an HDF5 store.

Please note that this is version 0.1 of this specification. Resource
granularity and representations are based on our own experiments and
a limited understanding of "real" applications.

We invite you to share your comments/thoughts regarding this via the
HDF-Forum, or you can reply directly to gheber@hdfgroup.org. We would
like to know how you would use an HDF5/REST interface with your data.
If you would consider participating in a trial, please let us know
that, as well.


Retirement of HDF-EOS5 to NetCDF-4 Converter

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Effective 12/31/2012, the HDF-EOS5 to NetCDF-4 Converter is no longer
supported by The HDF Group. For information regarding this tool, see:

 http://www.hdfeos.org/software/convert_hdfeos5.php

Contact eoshelp@hdfgroup.org if you have any questions or concerns
about this.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

