===================
HDF Newsletter #132
===================

To view from a browser see:
 http://www.hdfgroup.org/newsletters/newsletter132.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF Group Home Page: http://www.hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk/Mailing List Info: http://www.hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #132
 February 15, 2013

CONTENTS

 . Release of HDF 4.2.9

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF 4.2.9

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF 4.2.9 release is now available. It can be obtained from the
HDF Downloads page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/index.html#hdf4

The HDF 4.2.9 documentation is located in:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/doc.html

HDF 4.2.9 is a minor release with a few new features and changes,
including the following:

 - Support was added for Mac OS X 10.8 (Mountain Lion) with the Clang and
 Intel compilers. The Clang compiler is the default C compiler.

 - The SDgetcompress API has been deprecated in this release. It is still
 available by default in the library, but is no longer documented. Users
 should use SDgetcompinfo instead. The SDgetcompress function can be
 removed from the HDF4 library by specifying -DH4_NO_DEPRECATED_SYMBOLS
 when compiling.

 - HDF can now build on Cygwin (version 1.7) using TI-RPC (Transport
 Independent RPC).

Please refer to the HDF 4.2.9 Release Notes for complete details on what
has changed in this release:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF/HDF_Current/src/hdf-4.2.9-RELEASE.txt

For more information, see the HDF (HDF4) home page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/hdf4/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

