===================
HDF Newsletter #137
===================

To view from a browser see:
 http://www.hdfgroup.org/newsletters/newsletter137.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF Group Home Page: http://www.hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk/Mailing List Info: http://www.hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #137
 November 15, 2013

CONTENTS:
 . Release of HDF5-1.8.12
 . Release of h4mapwriter version 1.0.6
 . Release of h5edit 1.2.0
 . Book Release of "Python and HDF5"

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5-1.8.12

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF5-1.8.12 release is now available, and can be downloaded from the
HDF Group Downloads page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/

It can also be obtained directly from:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/release/obtain5.html

HDF5-1.8.12 is a minor release, with a few new features and changes,
including:

 o An option was added to specify the location of a default plugin
 (dynamically loaded filter) when building HDF5.

 The configure option is: --with-default-plugindir=location
 The CMake option is: -DH5_DEFAULT_PLUGINDIR:PATH=location

 o The h5repack utility was updated to use plugin filters (dynamically
 loaded filters) to read and write files.

 o The following options were added to h5dump:

 - The "-N" or "--any_path" option searches the file for paths that
 match the search path.

 - The "-A 0" option excludes the display of attributes.

 o Several changes were made to the C++ APIs. Some wrappers and
 overloaded convenience functions were added, as well as a new
 class, H5::H5Location.

This release contains many other changes that are not listed here.
Please be sure to read the Release Notes for a comprehensive list of
new features and changes:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/current/src/hdf5-1.8.12-RELEASE.txt

Changes that affect maintainers of HDF5-dependent applications are
listed in "HDF5 Software Changes from Release to Release":

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc/ADGuide/Changes.html


Future Changes to Supported Platforms

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Please be aware that after this release we will be moving our current
standard for Windows from Windows 7 VS 2010 Intel Fortran 12 to
Windows 7 VS 2012 Intel Fortran 13. All versions will continue to be
tested but only pre-built binaries for VS 2012 Intel Fortran 13 will
be provided on the web site.

In addition, we plan to drop support for Mac OS X 10.6, move to
CMake 2.8.14, and upgrade the GNU Autotools to the latest version.

Let us know if you have any concerns about these upcoming changes.


Release of h4mapwriter version 1.0.6

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Version 1.0.6 of the h4mapwriter utility is now available and can be
downloaded from the h4mapwriter project page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/h4map/h4map_writer.html

The 1.0.6 release improves error handling of unmappable objects.

The h4mapwriter is a utility that creates an HDF4 file content map in
XML for a given HDF4 file. It enables the data to be retrieved from
an HDF4 file without relying on the HDF4 library.


Release of h5edit 1.2.0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Version 1.2.0 of h5edit is available from the JPSS project Downloads
page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/jpss/jpss_downloads.html

New features in this release include:

 o Added support for the MODIFY command.
 o Added support for Mac OS X Mountain Lion 10.8.4.

The h5edit tool is a general command line tool to edit HDF5 files.
The current version is limited to operations on attributes only. For
more information see:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/jpss/h5edit_index.html


Book Release of "Python and HDF5"

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We are pleased to announce the release this month of a new O'Reilly
book by Andrew Collette entitled "Python and HDF5". For more
information see:

 http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920030249.do


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

