===================
HDF Newsletter #138
===================

To view from a browser see:
 http://www.hdfgroup.org/newsletters/newsletter138.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF Group Home Page: http://www.hdfgroup.org/
Helpdesk/Mailing List Info: http://www.hdfgroup.org/services/support.html

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #138
 December 18, 2013

CONTENTS
. Release of HDF-Java Products version 2.10
. Release of h5edit version 1.2.1
. Release of HDF-EOS5 Augmentation Tool version 2.4

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF-Java Products version 2.10

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Version 2.10 of the HDF-Java Products is now available. This release was
built and tested with HDF 4.2.9, HDF5-1.8.12, and JDK 1.7. It can be
obtained from The HDF Group Downloads page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/index.html

It can also be downloaded directly from the HDF-Java Products Download
page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/java/release/download.html

For more information on HDF-Java, see the HDF-Java Products Home page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/java/hdf-java-html/

(Please note that the location of the HDF-Java Products web pages
changed with this release.)

Although this release is a maintenance release with no major changes in
functionality, it does include major changes in the packaging and
installation:

 o This release was built using CMake.

 o Separate HDFView binaries are no longer provided. As of this release,
 HDFView is included only within the HDF-Java Products software.

 o Java is not bundled with the HDF-Java Products on Unix platforms, and
 will need to be installed separately in order to use this software.

Other important changes in this release include:

 o HDFView can now display datasets with user-defined plugins. For
 information on this feature, see:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc/Advanced/DynamicallyLoadedFilters/HDF5DynamicallyLoadedFilters.pdf

 o A problem with the display and editing of unsigned 64-bit data in
 HDFView was fixed. This issue caused corruption when editing and
 saving data to a dataset with a compound datatype that included an
 unsigned 64-bit field.

 o Command-line options can now be specified correctly with HDFView.

For more information about this release, please see:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/java/hdf-java-html/hdfview/UsersGuide/ug01introduction.html#ug01release



Future Changes to Supported Platforms

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Please be aware that after this release the standard platform
configuration for Windows will move to VS 2012 instead of VS 2010.
The minimum CMake version will be 2.8.14 for all platforms.



Release of h5edit 1.2.1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Version 1.2.1 of the h5edit tool is now available, and can be downloaded
from the JPSS project Download page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/jpss/jpss_downloads.html

This release is a maintenance release with the following changes:

.. code-block:: fortran

    o Added support to allow "_" as a valid character of attribute names.
    o Fixed the MODIFY command to handle STRING type attributes.

   The h5edit tool is a general command line tool to edit HDF5 files. The
   current version is limited to operations on attributes only. For more
   information see:


 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/jpss/h5edit_index.html



Release of HDF-EOS5 Augmentation Tool version 2.4

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Version 2.4 of the HDF-EOS5 Augmentation Tool is now available from
the HDF-EOS Tools and Information Center:

 http://www.hdfeos.org/

The software can be downloaded directly from the HDF-EOS5 Augmentation
Tool web page:

 http://hdfeos.org/software/aug_eos5.php

See the announcement on the HDF-EOS Forum for details regarding this
release:

 http://hdfeos.org/forums/showthread.php?p=1328#post1328



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

