===================
HDF Newsletter #143
===================

To view from a browser see:
 http://www.hdfgroup.org/newsletters/newsletter143.pdf

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF Group Home Page: http://www.hdfgroup.org/
Support Services: http://www.hdfgroup.org/services/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #143
 December 15, 2014

CONTENTS
 . Release of HDF-Java Products 2.11
 . HDF Software Highlights

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF-Java Products 2.11

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Version 2.11 of the HDF-Java Products is now available. This release was built
with HDF 4.2.10 and HDF5-1.8.14 using jdk 1.7.x.

HDF-Java 2.11 can be obtained from The HDF Group Downloads page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/index.html

It can also be downloaded directly from the HDF-Java Products Download page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/java/release/download.html

For more information on HDF-Java, see the HDF-Java Products Home page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/products/java/index.html

This is a minor release with no major changes in functionality. The most
important changes in this release include:

 o Support was added for writing an attribute with a simple, one
 dimensional variable-length datatype.

 o Several datatype issues were fixed (with bitfield, opaque, object and
 region references, and compound).

 o Issues with filters and dynamic loading were addressed.

Please be sure to see the Release Notes for detailed information regarding
platforms supported and changes in this release:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/hdf-java/current/src/unpacked/docs/RELEASE.txt


HDF Software Highlights

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


There have been updates to the high-level object and region reference library
and the h5edit tool. This software, developed for the JPSS project, is
available for general use and can be obtained from the JPSS project Download
page:

 http://www.hdfgroup.org/projects/jpss/jpss_downloads.html


High-level library for handling HDF5 object and region references:

A new release, version 1.1.3, of the high-level library for handling HDF5
object and region references is now available. This library consists of C and
Fortran APIs for creating, reading, and copying object and region reference
data.

This release includes the following changes:

 o Support was added for Windows using CMake

 o A fix was added to the Fortran API, H5LRmake_dataset_f.

 o Fortran 2003 is now required.


h5edit:

Version 1.3.1 of h5edit is now available. The h5edit tool is a general command
line tool to edit HDF5 files. The current version is limited to operations on
attributes only.

This release is a maintenance release with the following changes:

 o The software was ported to Mac OS X 10.9 Mavericks.

 o It includes a performance study on the Backup VFD feature that was
 implemented in the 1.3.0 release. This study has been shown to improve
 execution speed for incremental atomicity on large sized files.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

