===================
HDF Newsletter #147
===================

To view from a browser see:
 https://www.hdfgroup.org/newsletters/newsletter147.pdf

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF Group Home Page: https://www.hdfgroup.org/
Support Services: https://www.hdfgroup.org/services/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #147
 December 30, 2015

CONTENTS

 - Release of HDF5-1.10.0-alpha0

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5-1.10.0-alpha0

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


We are very pleased to announce the release of HDF5-1.10.0-alpha0. It can
be obtained from The HDF Group Downloads page:

 https://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/

It can also be obtained directly from:

 https://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/release/obtain5110.html

Documentation can be found in:

 https://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/docNewFeatures/

HDF5-1.10 is a major release containing many new features. The alpha0
release contains some but not all of the features that will be in HDF5-1.10.
More features will be added in upcoming alpha releases.

PLEASE BE AWARE that the file format is not yet stable. DO NOT keep files
until further notice.

Following are the new features in the HDF5-1.10.0-alpha0 release:

 o Concurrent Access to an HDF5 File: Single Writer / Multiple Reader (SWMR)

 The Single Writer / Multiple Reader or SWMR feature enables users to read
 data while concurrently writing it. Communications between the processes
 and file locking are not required. An HDF5 file under SWMR access must
 reside on a file system that complies with POSIX write() semantics.

 o Virtual Dataset (VDS)

 The VDS feature enables access to data stored in datasets in different
 HDF5 files using the standard H5D interface without rewriting or
 rearranging the data. Please note that the VDS feature can be used with
 SWMR.

 o Scalable Chunk Indexing

 The indexing structure for chunked datasets has been changed to
 significantly improve performance.

 o Persistent Free File Space Tracking

 Usage patterns when working with an HDF5 file sometimes result in wasted
 space within the file. This can also impair access times when working with
 the resulting files. The new file space management feature provides
 strategies for managing space in a file to improve performance in both of
 these arenas.

We would greatly appreciate any feedback you might have regarding this release.
Please send your comments to The HDF Helpdesk (help@hdfgroup.org). If sending a

.. code-block:: fortran

   bug report, please include a C example program that we can use to reproduce the
   issue.


Happy New Year!

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

