===================
HDF Newsletter #152
===================

To view from a browser see:
 https://support.hdfgroup.org/newsletters/newsletter152.pdf

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF Group Home Page: https://www.hdfgroup.org/
Support Services: https://www.hdfgroup.org/support/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #152
 November 16, 2016

CONTENTS

 - Release of HDF5-1.8.18
 - HDF Software Repository Moved to Git

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5-1.8.18

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF5-1.8.18 release is now available. It can be downloaded from The HDF
Group Downloads page:

 https://support.hdfgroup.org/downloads/

It can also be obtained from:

 https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/release/obtain518.html

HDF5-1.8.18 is a minor release with a few new features and changes. Important
changes include:

 o Changes were made to the HDF5 C++ library:

 - H5_NO_NAMESPACE was deprecated.
 - Several methods were added or removed.

 o The High Level Packet Table (PT) API now correctly writes data when the
 datatype is a compound type that has a string type as one of its members.
 This issue was introduced in HDF5-1.8.15.

 o A number of issues were fixed to ensure that the library fails gracefully
 when reading from or writing to corrupted files.

 o The h5repack utility now correctly parses User Defined (UD) filter

.. code-block:: c

    parameters.


 o Problems building the HDF5 Fortran library with the NAG compiler have been
 resolved.

This release contains many other changes that are not listed here. Please be
sure to read the Release Notes for a comprehensive list of new features and
changes:

 https://support.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/releases/hdf5-1.8/hdf5-1.8.18/src/hdf5-1.8.18-RELEASE.txt

Changes that affect maintainers of HDF5-dependent applications are listed on
the HDF5 Software Changes from Release to Release page. See:

 https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc1.8/ADGuide/Changes.html


Future Changes to Supported Compilers and Platforms

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


After this release we will be dropping support for Visual Studio 2012. We
will also be moving the required minimum CMake version from 3.1 to a version
TBD once comprehensive testing has been completed.


HDF Software Repository Moved to Git

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF software repository has moved from SVN to Git. For the current
location of the software see:

 https://bitbucket.hdfgroup.org/projects

You can download the HDF5 development software by specifying:

 git clone https://bitbucket.hdfgroup.org/scm/hdffv/hdf5.git

Please note that the built autotools files are not included in the
development branch of the software. If you have autotools on your machine
you can run "autogen.sh" in the top directory of the HDF5 source code to
install the required files.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

