===================
HDF Newsletter #154
===================

To view from a browser see:
 https://support.hdfgroup.org/newsletters/newsletter154.pdf

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF Group Home Page: https://www.hdfgroup.org/
Support Services: https://www.hdfgroup.org/support/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #154
 May 31, 2017

CONTENTS
 . Release of HDFView 3.0.0 Beta

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDFView 3.0.0 Beta

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


A *beta* version of HDFView 3.0.0 is now available from The HDF Group home
page:

 https://www.hdfgroup.org/hdfview/

This is a major release that includes the following new features and changes:

 o It supports 64-bit object identifiers, and uses the HDF-Java wrappers
 that were added to HDF5 (in HDF5-1.10) and HDF4 (in HDF 4.2.12).

 o The GUI framework that HDFView uses was migrated from Swing to SWT,
 which provides a more native application look and feel and advanced
 support for tables.

 o The data views have been separated from the main HDFView window. The
 main HDFView window still displays open files and their structures on
 the left side of the window, and it now displays any metadata on the
 right side.

 o This release includes improved support for various datatypes (compound,
 array of compound, and opaque).

For a complete list of the new features and changes in this release, please
see the Release Notes:

 https://support.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/releases/HDF-JAVA/hdfview-3.0.0/src/unpacked/docs/RELEASE.txt

Why use HDFView 3 ?

HDFView 3 can read files created with any version of HDF5 or HDF4.

The older HDFView 2.x software supports files created with HDF5-1.8 (or
earlier) and any version of HDF4. HDFView 2.x may be able to read some

.. code-block:: c

   HDF5-1.10 files if they do not include any new features.


Important Change:

Please be aware that the change from Swing to SWT will affect users of the
HDF-Java Object package. With earlier releases of HDF-Java, the Swing GUI
framework library was required. This is no longer necessary in HDFView 3.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org

