===================
HDF Newsletter #159
===================

To view from a browser see:
 https://support.hdfgroup.org/newsletters/newsletter159.pdf

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The HDF Group Home Page: https://www.hdfgroup.org/
Support Services: https://www.hdfgroup.org/solutions/

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 Newsletter #159
 November 30, 2017

CONTENTS
 . Release of HDF5-1.8.20

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5-1.8.20

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF5-1.8.20 release is now available. It can be obtained from The
HDF Group Support Download page:

 https://support.hdfgroup.org/downloads/

It can also be obtained directly from:

 https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/release/obtain518.html

HDF5-1.8.20 is a minor release with a few new features and changes. Important
changes include:

 o An issue with H5Zfilter_avail was fixed, where it was not finding
 available plugins.

 o Improvements were made to the h5repack, h5ls, h5dump, h5diff, and h5import
 utilities.

 In particular, please be aware that the behavior of the h5repack utility
 changed.

.. code-block:: c

    A parameter was added to the "UD=" option of h5repack to allow the user
    defined filter flag to be changed to either H5Z_FLAG_MANDATORY (0) or
    H5Z_FLAG_OPTIONAL (1).

    An example of the command with the new parameter is shown here:
    h5repack -f UD=307,0,1,9 h5repack_layout.h5 out.h5repack_layout.h5


 Previously, the command would have been as follows:
 h5repack -f UD=307,1,9 h5repack_layout.h5 out.h5repack_layout.h5

 o Support for the NAG compiler was added.

 o Many C++ APIs were added or modified to better reflect the HDF5 model.

This release contains many other changes that are not listed here. Please be
sure to read the Release Notes for a comprehensive list of new features and
changes:

 https://support.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF5/releases/hdf5-1.8/hdf5-1.8.20/src/hdf5-1.8.20-RELEASE.txt

Changes that affect maintainers of HDF5-dependent applications are listed
on the HDF5 Software Changes from Release to Release page. See:

 https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/doc1.8/ADGuide/Changes.html



Future Changes to Supported Compilers

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Please be aware that the minimum supported CMake version will be changing in
the next release to CMake 3.8 or greater.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions regarding these or other HDF issues, contact:

 help@hdfgroup.org


