===================
HDF Newsletter #161
===================

June 6, 2018

CONTENTS
. Release of HDF5-1.8.21
. Future of HDF5-1.8

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

Release of HDF5-1.8.21

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The HDF5-1.8.21 release is now available, and can be accessed from both the
HDF5 download page and Support Portal:

 HDF5 Download page: https://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/hdf5/
 Support Portal: https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/support/HDF5+1.8.21

HDF5-1.8.21 is a minor release with a few new features and changes. Important
changes include:

 o The following vulnerability issues were addressed:

 CVE-2017-17505 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-17505
 CVE-2017-17506 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-17506
 CVE-2017-17508 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-17508
 CVE-2017-17509 https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2017-17509

 o Several changes were made to CMake:

 - The minimum version of CMake changed to 3.10.
 - pkg-config file generation was added for the C, C++, HL, and HL C++ libraries.
 - The h5cc and similar compile scripts are now created when building on Linux.

 o Many C++ APIs were added or modified to better reflect the HDF5 model.

 o Several tools bugs were fixed (in h5repack, h5dump, and h5diff).

This release contains many other changes that are not listed here. Please be
sure to read the Release Notes for a comprehensive list of new features and changes:

 https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/support/HDF5%201.8.21#releasenotes

Changes that affect maintainers of HDF5-dependent applications are listed
on the HDF5 Software Changes from Release to Release page. See:

 https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/HDF5/Software+Changes+from+Release+to+Release+for+HDF5-1.8

Future of HDF5-1.8
------------------

Please be aware that this is one of the last releases for HDF5-1.8. We encourage
users to move to HDF5-1.10, particularly after HDF5-1.10.3 is released later this
year. All major changes for HDF5-1.10 are in HDF5-1.10.2 and HDF5-1.10.3 will
include performance improvements for several of the new features.


