===================
HDF Newsletter #163
===================

CONTENTS:
HDFView 3.0 Pre-release
HDF5-1.10.3 Pre-release
Pre-release versions of both HDFView 3.0 and HDF5-1.10.3 are now available.  We encourage users to try them and let us know if you encounter any issues or have any suggestions.
HDFView 3.0 Pre-release
The pre-release version of HDFView 3.0 is available from the HDFView home page:
https://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/hdfview/
It is built with the pre-release version of HDF5-1.10.3 and with HDF 4.2.14.  A final release of HDFView 3.0 will be available once HDF5-1.10.3 has been released. Many fixes and improvements have been added since the beta was introduced.
HDFView 3.0 is a major release that includes the following new features and changes:
It supports 64-bit object identifiers, and uses the HDF-Java wrappers that were added to HDF5 and HDF4.
The GUI framework that HDFView uses was migrated from Swing to SWT, which provides a more native application look and feel and advanced support for tables.
The data views have been separated from the main HDFView window. The main HDFView window still displays open files and their structures on the left side of the window, and it now displays any metadata on the right side.
This release includes improved support for various datatypes (compound, array of compound, and opaque).
For a complete list of the new features and changes in this release, please see the Release Notes.
HDF5-1.10.3 Pre-release
The HDF5-1.10.3 pre-release source code is available from the HDF Support Portal:
https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/support/HDF5+1.10.3-pre1
New features and changes in this release include:
Several bugs were fixed in parallel compression in which:

.. code-block:: c

   Partial parallel reads of filtered datasets were returning incorrect data.
   Partial parallel writes of filtered datasets triggered an assertion failure in the file free space manager.
   The H5D__mpio_array_gatherv() function allocated too much memory.
   The following CVEs have been addressed in this release:
   CVE-2018-11202: A NULL pointer dereference was discovered in H5S_hyper_make_spans in H5Shyper.c.
   CVE-2018-11203: A division by zero was discovered in H5D__btree_decode_key in H5Dbtree.c.
   CVE-2018-11204: A NULL pointer dereference was discovered in H5O__chunk_deserialize in H5Ocache.c.
   CVE-2018-11206: An out of bounds read was discovered in H5O_fill_new_decode and H5O_fill_old_decode in H5Ofill.c.
   CVE-2018-11207: A division by zero was discovered in H5D__chunk_init in H5Dchunk.c.
   The H5DreadVL and H5AreadVL Java APIs were refactored to correct dataset and attribute reads.
   New APIs were added for accessing chunks: H5Dread_chunk and H5Dwrite_chunk
   New versions of the following HDF5 Object (H5O) APIs were added to include additional parameters: H5Oget_info, H5Oget_info_by_idx, H5Oget_info_by_name, H5Ovisit, and H5Ovisit_by_name.
   Several C++ wrappers were added or modified to provide additional support.
   Code changes were made to improve performance.
   The gcc attribute (no_sanitize) was moved before the function name to eliminate build issues with gcc 8.
   For a complete list of the new features and changes in this release, please see the Release Notes.
