===================
HDF Newsletter #164
===================

The HDF5 1.10.3 release is now available for download from:
https://www.hdfgroup.org/downloads/hdf5/
The source code (only) can also be obtained from:
https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/support/HDF5+1.10.3
User documentation for HDF5 1.10 can be accessed here:
https://portal.hdfgroup.org/display/HDF5/
New features and changes in this release include:
The H5Dread_chunk and H5Dwrite_chunk APIs were added to the HDF5 core library. They were previously located in the High Level Optimization library (H5DO).
New versions of the H5Oget_info and H5Ovisit family of routines were added: H5Oget_info2, H5Oget_info_by_idx2, H5Oget_info_by_name2, H5Ovisit2, and H5Ovisit_by_name2. These new routines address performance issues with the previous versions.
The H5DreadVL and H5AreadVL Java APIs were refactored to correct dataset and attribute reads.
Several C++ wrappers were added or modified to provide additional support.
The following CVEs were addressed in this release: CVE-2018-11202, CVE-2018-11203, CVE-2018-11204, CVE-2018-11206, and CVE-2018-11207
Several bugs were fixed in parallel compression.
Code changes were made to improve performance.
Several Cygwin patches were applied.
The gcc attribute (no_sanitize) was moved before the function name to eliminate build issues with gcc 8.
A corruption issue was fixed that occurred when deleting the last attribute that is stored densely.
For detailed information on the new features and changes in this release, please see the release notes.
