===================
HDF Newsletter #185
===================

We are very pleased to announce the release of HDF5 1.10.9, which can now be obtained from the HDF5 Download page.
Information about this release can be found at
Software Changes from Release to Release
HDF5 1.10.9 is a minor release with several new features and changes:
Several improvements to parallel compression feature were made, as in 1.13.1. They are described in the Parallel compression improvements in HDF5 1.13.1 blog post.
Work has begun to produce a “User Guide” with doxygen, to be finished in the next 1.10 release. To generate the work-in-progress “User Guide”, configure with --enable-doxygen for autotools or with -DHDF5_BUILD_DOC=ON for CMake, and run “make doxygen”.  The output will be in hdf5lib_docs/html in the top level build directory.  Links in the navigation pane on the left are to previous documentation which will be replaced; the current work in progress is in “User Guide”.  Feedback is welcome.
Version checking for run-time compatibility will now allow applications built with earlier HDF5 1.10.x versions to run without setting the environment variable to allow it.
The path searched by the CMake find_package command has been corrected to use HDF5_INSTALL_CMAKE_DIR set to the <INSTALL_DIR>/cmake folder. See RELEASE.txt for details.
These CVE issues have not been addressed in this release, but can be avoided with new configure options to disable building High-Level tools. These three CVE issues will be avoided by not building the gif tools using --disable-tools for autotools or HDF5_BUILD_HL_TOOLS=OFF for cmake:
CVE-2018-17433
CVE-2018-17436
CVE-2020-10809
Note that, by the end of the year, support for VS 2015 will be dropped from all HDF5 versions.
This release contains other changes that are not listed here. Please be sure to read the Release Notes for a comprehensive list of new features and changes.
Changes that affect maintainers of HDF5-dependent applications are listed on the HDF5 Software Changes from Release to Release page.