===================
HDF Newsletter #187
===================

We are very pleased to announce the release of HDF5 1.13.2, which can now be obtained from the HDF5 Download page.
Information about this release can be found on the Support Portal as follows:
HDF5 documentation
Software Changes from Release to Release
HDF5 1.13.2 offers the new features and changes:
A new virtual file driver is introduced in this release, the HDF5 Subfiling VFD. The Subfiling VFD allows an HDF5 application to aggregate data to a subset of MPI ranks, and those ranks then distribute an HDF5 file across a collection of "sub-files" in equal-sized data segment “stripes.” Please refer to the Release Notes for detail.
This release also adds the onion VFD, which allows creating versioned HDF5 files, where subsequent modifications are tracked and older versions can be re-opened.
A number of wrappers have been added to the C++ and JAVA libraries.
Several improvements were made in the JAVA library.
Some issues with the file open/close in the Fortran API were fixed.

.. code-block:: c

   A trivial tool, perf, has been removed to avoid conflicts with the gnu's perf tool
   The H5Dchunk_iter() callback now uses scaled offsets like in H5Dget_chunk_info().
   Support for building h5perf in "standalone mode" was dropped in both serial and parallel HDF5.
   Note that, by the end of the year, support for VS 2015 will be dropped.
   This release contains other changes that are not listed here. Please be sure to read the Release Notes for a comprehensive list of new features and changes.
   Changes that affect maintainers of HDF5-dependent applications are listed on the HDF5 Software Changes from Release to Release page.